If you happen to have read another book about Christopher Robin, you may
remember that he once had a swan (or the swan had Christopher Robin, I
don't know which) and that he used to call this swan Pooh. That was a
long time ago, and when we said good-bye, we took the name with us, as
we didn't think the swan would want it any more. Well, when Edward Bear
said that he would like an exciting name all to himself, Christopher
Robin said at once, without stopping to think, that he was
Winnie-the-Pooh. And he was. So, as I have explained the Pooh part, I
will now explain the rest of it.

You can't be in London for long without going to the Zoo. There are some
people who begin the Zoo at the beginning, called WAYIN, and walk as
quickly as they can past every cage until they get to the one called
WAYOUT, but the nicest people go straight to the animal they love the
most, and stay there. So when Christopher Robin goes to the Zoo, he goes
to where the Polar Bears are, and he whispers something to the third
keeper from the left, and doors are unlocked, and we wander through dark
passages and up steep stairs, until at last we come to the special cage,
and the cage is opened, and out trots something brown and furry, and
with a happy cry of "Oh, Bear!" Christopher Robin rushes into its arms.
Now this bear's name is Winnie, which shows what a good name for bears
it is, but the funny thing is that we can't remember whether Winnie is
called after Pooh, or Pooh after Winnie. We did know once, but we have
forgotten....

I had written as far as this when Piglet looked up and said in his
squeaky voice, "What about _Me_?" "My dear Piglet," I said, "the whole
book is about you." "So it is about Pooh," he squeaked. You see what it
is. He is jealous because he thinks Pooh is having a Grand Introduction
all to himself. Pooh is the favourite, of course, there's no denying it,
but Piglet comes in for a good many things which Pooh misses; because
you can't take Pooh to school without everybody knowing it, but Piglet
is so small that he slips into a pocket, where it is very comforting to
feel him when you are not quite sure whether twice seven is twelve or
twenty-two. Sometimes he slips out and has a good look in the ink-pot,
and in this way he has got more education than Pooh, but Pooh doesn't
mind. Some have brains, and some haven't, he says, and there it is.

And now all the others are saying, "What about _Us_?" So perhaps the
best thing to do is to stop writing Introductions and get on with the
book.

 CHAPTER I

                      IN WHICH WE ARE INTRODUCED TO
                     WINNIE-THE-POOH AND SOME BEES,
                          AND THE STORIES BEGIN


Here is Edward Bear, coming downstairs now, bump, bump, bump, on the
back of his head, behind Christopher Robin. It is, as far as he knows,
the only way of coming downstairs, but sometimes he feels that there
really is another way, if only he could stop bumping for a moment and
think of it. And then he feels that perhaps there isn't. Anyhow, here he
is at the bottom, and ready to be introduced to you. Winnie-the-Pooh.

When I first heard his name, I said, just as you are going to say, "But
I thought he was a boy?"

"So did I," said Christopher Robin.

"Then you can't call him Winnie?"

"I don't."

"But you said----"

"He's Winnie-ther-Pooh. Don't you know what '_ther_' means?"

"Ah, yes, now I do," I said quickly; and I hope you do too, because it
is all the explanation you are going to get.

Sometimes Winnie-the-Pooh likes a game of some sort when he comes
downstairs, and sometimes he likes to sit quietly in front of the fire
and listen to a story. This evening----

"What about a story?" said Christopher Robin.

"_What_ about a story?" I said.

"Could you very sweetly tell Winnie-the-Pooh one?"

"I suppose I could," I said. "What sort of stories does he like?"

"About himself. Because he's _that_ sort of Bear."

"Oh, I see."

"So could you very sweetly?"

"I'll try," I said.

So I tried.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Once upon a time, a very long time ago now, about last Friday,
Winnie-the-Pooh lived in a forest all by himself under the name of
Sanders.

(_"What does 'under the name' mean?" asked Christopher Robin._

"_It means he had the name over the door in gold letters, and lived
under it._"

_"Winnie-the-Pooh wasn't quite sure," said Christopher Robin._

_"Now I am," said a growly voice._

_"Then I will go on," said I._)

One day when he was out walking, he came to an open place in the middle
of the forest, and in the middle of this place was a large oak-tree,
and, from the top of the tree, there came a loud buzzing-noise.

Winnie-the-Pooh sat down at the foot of the tree, put his head between
his paws and began to think.

First of all he said to himself: "That buzzing-noise means something.
You don't get a buzzing-noise like that, just buzzing and buzzing,
without its meaning something. If there's a buzzing-noise, somebody's
making a buzzing-noise, and the only reason for making a buzzing-noise
that _I_ know of is because you're a bee."

Then he thought another long time, and said: "And the only reason for
being a bee that I know of is making honey."

And then he got up, and said: "And the only reason for making honey is
so as _I_ can eat it." So he began to climb the tree.

He climbed and he climbed and he climbed, and as he climbed he sang a
little song to himself. It went like this:

    Isn't it funny
    How a bear likes honey?
    Buzz! Buzz! Buzz!
    I wonder why he does?

Then he climbed a little further ... and a little further ... and
then just a little further. By that time he had thought of another song.

    It's a very funny thought that, if Bears were Bees,
    They'd build their nests at the _bottom_ of trees.
    And that being so (if the Bees were Bears),
    We shouldn't have to climb up all these stairs.

He was getting rather tired by this time, so that is why he sang a
Complaining Song. He was nearly there now, and if he just stood on that
branch ...

_Crack!_

"Oh, help!" said Pooh, as he dropped ten feet on the branch below him.

"If only I hadn't----" he said, as he bounced twenty feet on to the next
branch.

"You see, what I _meant_ to do," he explained, as he turned
head-over-heels, and crashed on to another branch thirty feet below,
"what I _meant_ to do----"

"Of course, it _was_ rather----" he admitted, as he slithered very
quickly through the next six branches.

"It all comes, I suppose," he decided, as he said good-bye to the last
branch, spun round three times, and flew gracefully into a gorse-bush,
"it all comes of _liking_ honey so much. Oh, help!"

He crawled out of the gorse-bush, brushed the prickles from his nose,
and began to think again. And the first person he thought of was
Christopher Robin.

(_"Was that me?" said Christopher Robin in an awed voice, hardly daring
to believe it._

"_That was you._"

_Christopher Robin said nothing, but his eyes got larger and larger, and
his face got pinker and pinker._)

So Winnie-the-Pooh went round to his friend Christopher Robin, who lived
behind a green door in another part of the forest.

"Good morning, Christopher Robin," he said.

"Good morning, Winnie-_ther_-Pooh," said you.

"I wonder if you've got such a thing as a balloon about you?"

"A balloon?"

"Yes, I just said to myself coming along: 'I wonder if Christopher Robin
has such a thing as a balloon about him?' I just said it to myself,
thinking of balloons, and wondering."

"What do you want a balloon for?" you said.

Winnie-the-Pooh looked round to see that nobody was listening, put his
paw to his mouth, and said in a deep whisper: "_Honey!_"

"But you don't get honey with balloons!"

"_I_ do," said Pooh.

Well, it just happened that you had been to a party the day before at
the house of your friend Piglet, and you had balloons at the party. You
had had a big green balloon; and one of Rabbit's relations had had a big
blue one, and had left it behind, being really too young to go to a
party at all; and so you had brought the green one _and_ the blue one
home with you.

"Which one would you like?" you asked Pooh.

He put his head between his paws and thought very carefully.

"It's like this," he said. "When you go after honey with a balloon, the
great thing is not to let the bees know you're coming. Now, if you have
a green balloon, they might think you were only part of the tree, and
not notice you, and, if you have a blue balloon, they might think you
were only part of the sky, and not notice you, and the question is:
Which is most likely?"

"Wouldn't they notice _you_ underneath the balloon?" you asked.

"They might or they might not," said Winnie-the-Pooh. "You never can
tell with bees." He thought for a moment and said: "I shall try to look
like a small black cloud. That will deceive them."

"Then you had better have the blue balloon," you said; and so it was
decided.

Well, you both went out with the blue balloon, and you took your gun
with you, just in case, as you always did, and Winnie-the-Pooh went to a
very muddy place that he knew of, and rolled and rolled until he was
black all over; and then, when the balloon was blown up as big as big,
and you and Pooh were both holding on to the string, you let go
suddenly, and Pooh Bear floated gracefully up into the sky, and stayed
there--level with the top of the tree and about twenty feet away from
it.

"Hooray!" you shouted.

"Isn't that fine?" shouted Winnie-the-Pooh down to you. "What do I look
like?"

"You look like a Bear holding on to a balloon," you said.

"Not," said Pooh anxiously, "--not like a small black cloud in a blue
sky?"

"Not very much."

"Ah, well, perhaps from up here it looks different. And, as I say, you
never can tell with bees."

There was no wind to blow him nearer to the tree, so there he stayed. He
could see the honey, he could smell the honey, but he couldn't quite
reach the honey.

After a little while he called down to you.

"Christopher Robin!" he said in a loud whisper.

"Hallo!"

"I think the bees _suspect_ something!"

"What sort of thing?"

"I don't know. But something tells me that they're _suspicious_!"

"Perhaps they think that you're after their honey."

"It may be that. You never can tell with bees."

There was another little silence, and then he called down to you again.

"Christopher Robin!"

"Yes?"

"Have you an umbrella in your house?"

"I think so."

"I wish you would bring it out here, and walk up and down with it, and
look up at me every now and then, and say 'Tut-tut, it looks like rain.'
I think, if you did that, it would help the deception which we are
practising on these bees."

Well, you laughed to yourself, "Silly old Bear!" but you didn't say it
aloud because you were so fond of him, and you went home for your
umbrella.

"Oh, there you are!" called down Winnie-the-Pooh, as soon as you got
back to the tree. "I was beginning to get anxious. I have discovered
that the bees are now definitely Suspicious."

"Shall I put my umbrella up?" you said.

"Yes, but wait a moment. We must be practical. The important bee to
deceive is the Queen Bee. Can you see which is the Queen Bee from down
there?"

"No."

"A pity. Well, now, if you walk up and down with your umbrella, saying,
'Tut-tut, it looks like rain,' I shall do what I can by singing a little
Cloud Song, such as a cloud might sing.... Go!"

So, while you walked up and down and wondered if it would rain,
Winnie-the-Pooh sang this song:

    How sweet to be a Cloud
      Floating in the Blue!
    Every little cloud
    _Always_ sings aloud.

    "How sweet to be a Cloud
      Floating in the Blue!"
    It makes him very proud
    To be a little cloud.

The bees were still buzzing as suspiciously as ever. Some of them,
indeed, left their nests and flew all round the cloud as it began the
second verse of this song, and one bee sat down on the nose of the cloud
for a moment, and then got up again.

"Christopher--_ow!_--Robin," called out the cloud.

"Yes?"

"I have just been thinking, and I have come to a very important
decision. _These are the wrong sort of bees._"

"Are they?"

"Quite the wrong sort. So I should think they would make the wrong sort
of honey, shouldn't you?"

"Would they?"

"Yes. So I think I shall come down."

"How?" asked you.

Winnie-the-Pooh hadn't thought about this. If he let go of the string,
he would fall--_bump_--and he didn't like the idea of that. So he
thought for a long time, and then he said:

"Christopher Robin, you must shoot the balloon with your gun. Have you
got your gun?"

"Of course I have," you said. "But if I do that, it will spoil the
balloon," you said.

"But if you _don't_," said Pooh, "I shall have to let go, and that would
spoil _me_."

When he put it like this, you saw how it was, and you aimed very
carefully at the balloon, and fired.

"_Ow!_" said Pooh.

"Did I miss?" you asked.

"You didn't exactly _miss_," said Pooh, "but you missed the _balloon_."

"I'm so sorry," you said, and you fired again, and this time you hit the
balloon, and the air came slowly out, and Winnie-the-Pooh floated down
to the ground.

But his arms were so stiff from holding on to the string of the balloon
all that time that they stayed up straight in the air for more than a
week, and whenever a fly came and settled on his nose he had to blow it
off. And I think--but I am not sure--that _that_ is why he was always
called Pooh.

                 *        *        *        *        *

"Is that the end of the story?" asked Christopher Robin.

"That's the end of that one. There are others."

"About Pooh and Me?"

"And Piglet and Rabbit and all of you. Don't you remember?"

"I do remember, and then when I try to remember, I forget."

"That day when Pooh and Piglet tried to catch the Heffalump----"

"They didn't catch it, did they?"

"No."

"Pooh couldn't, because he hasn't any brain. Did _I_ catch it?"

"Well, that comes into the story."

Christopher Robin nodded.

"I do remember," he said, "only Pooh doesn't very well, so that's why he
likes having it told to him again. Because then it's a real story and
not just a remembering."

"That's just how _I_ feel," I said.

Christopher Robin gave a deep sigh, picked his Bear up by the leg, and
walked off to the door, trailing Pooh behind him. At the door he turned
and said, "Coming to see me have my bath?"

"I might," I said.

"I didn't hurt him when I shot him, did I?"

"Not a bit."

He nodded and went out, and in a moment I heard Winnie-the-Pooh--_bump,
bump, bump_--going up the stairs behind him.




                               CHAPTER II

                     IN WHICH POOH GOES VISITING AND
                         GETS INTO A TIGHT PLACE


Edward Bear, known to his friends as Winnie-the-Pooh, or Pooh for
short, was walking through the forest one day, humming proudly to
himself. He had made up a little hum that very morning, as he was doing
his Stoutness Exercises in front of the glass: _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la_,
as he stretched up as high as he could go, and then _Tra-la-la,
tra-la--oh, help!--la_, as he tried to reach his toes. After breakfast
he had said it over and over to himself until he had learnt it off by
heart, and now he was humming it right through, properly. It went like
this:

      _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,_
      _Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,_
    _Rum-tum-tiddle-um-tum._
      _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_
      _Tiddle-iddle, tiddle-iddle,_
    _Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um._

Well, he was humming this hum to himself, and walking along gaily,
wondering what everybody else was doing, and what it felt like, being
somebody else, when suddenly he came to a sandy bank, and in the bank
was a large hole.

"Aha!" said Pooh. (_Rum-tum-tiddle-um-tum._) "If I know anything about
anything, that hole means Rabbit," he said, "and Rabbit means Company,"
he said, "and Company means Food and Listening-to-Me-Humming and such
like. _Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um._"

So he bent down, put his head into the hole, and called out:

"Is anybody at home?"

There was a sudden scuffling noise from inside the hole, and then
silence.

"What I said was, 'Is anybody at home?'" called out Pooh very loudly.

"No!" said a voice; and then added, "You needn't shout so loud. I heard
you quite well the first time."

"Bother!" said Pooh. "Isn't there anybody here at all?"

"Nobody."

Winnie-the-Pooh took his head out of the hole, and thought for a little,
and he thought to himself, "There must be somebody there, because
somebody must have _said_ 'Nobody.'" So he put his head back in the
hole, and said:

"Hallo, Rabbit, isn't that you?"

"No," said Rabbit, in a different sort of voice this time.

"But isn't that Rabbit's voice?"

"I don't _think_ so," said Rabbit. "It isn't _meant_ to be."

"Oh!" said Pooh.

He took his head out of the hole, and had another think, and then he put
it back, and said:

"Well, could you very kindly tell me where Rabbit is?"

"He has gone to see his friend Pooh Bear, who is a great friend of his."

"But this _is_ Me!" said Bear, very much surprised.

"What sort of Me?"

"Pooh Bear."

"Are you sure?" said Rabbit, still more surprised.

"Quite, quite sure," said Pooh.

"Oh, well, then, come in."

So Pooh pushed and pushed and pushed his way through the hole, and at
last he got in.

"You were quite right," said Rabbit, looking at him all over. "It _is_
you. Glad to see you."

"Who did you think it was?"

"Well, I wasn't sure. You know how it is in the Forest. One can't have
_anybody_ coming into one's house. One has to be _careful_. What about a
mouthful of something?"

Pooh always liked a little something at eleven o'clock in the morning,
and he was very glad to see Rabbit getting out the plates and mugs; and
when Rabbit said, "Honey or condensed milk with your bread?" he was so
excited that he said, "Both," and then, so as not to seem greedy, he
added, "But don't bother about the bread, please." And for a long time
after that he said nothing ... until at last, humming to himself in a
rather sticky voice, he got up, shook Rabbit lovingly by the paw, and
said that he must be going on.

"Must you?" said Rabbit politely.

"Well," said Pooh, "I could stay a little longer if it--if you----" and
he tried very hard to look in the direction of the larder.

"As a matter of fact," said Rabbit, "I was going out myself directly."

"Oh, well, then, I'll be going on. Good-bye."

"Well, good-bye, if you're sure you won't have any more."

"_Is_ there any more?" asked Pooh quickly.

Rabbit took the covers off the dishes, and said, "No, there wasn't."

"I thought not," said Pooh, nodding to himself. "Well, good-bye. I must
be going on."

So he started to climb out of the hole. He pulled with his front paws,
and pushed with his back paws, and in a little while his nose was out in
the open again ... and then his ears ... and then his front paws ...
and then his shoulders ... and then----

"Oh, help!" said Pooh. "I'd better go back."

"Oh, bother!" said Pooh. "I shall have to go on."

"I can't do either!" said Pooh. "Oh, help _and_ bother!"

Now by this time Rabbit wanted to go for a walk too, and finding the
front door full, he went out by the back door, and came round to Pooh,
and looked at him.

"Hallo, are you stuck?" he asked.

"N-no," said Pooh carelessly. "Just resting and thinking and humming to
myself."

"Here, give us a paw."

Pooh Bear stretched out a paw, and Rabbit pulled and pulled and
pulled....

"_Ow!_" cried Pooh. "You're hurting!"

"The fact is," said Rabbit, "you're stuck."

"It all comes," said Pooh crossly, "of not having front doors big
enough."

"It all comes," said Rabbit sternly, "of eating too much. I thought at
the time," said Rabbit, "only I didn't like to say anything," said
Rabbit, "that one of us was eating too much," said Rabbit, "and I knew
if wasn't _me_," he said. "Well, well, I shall go and fetch Christopher
Robin."

Christopher Robin lived at the other end of the Forest, and when he came
back with Rabbit, and saw the front half of Pooh, he said, "Silly old
Bear," in such a loving voice that everybody felt quite hopeful again.

"I was just beginning to think," said Bear, sniffing slightly, "that
Rabbit might never be able to use his front door again. And I should
_hate_ that," he said.

"So should I," said Rabbit.

"Use his front door again?" said Christopher Robin. "Of course he'll use
his front door again."

"Good," said Rabbit.

"If we can't pull you out, Pooh, we might push you back."

Rabbit scratched his whiskers thoughtfully, and pointed out that, when
once Pooh was pushed back, he was back, and of course nobody was more
glad to see Pooh than _he_ was, still there it was, some lived in trees
and some lived underground, and----

"You mean I'd _never_ get out?" said Pooh.

"I mean," said Rabbit, "that having got _so_ far, it seems a pity to
waste it."

Christopher Robin nodded.

"Then there's only one thing to be done," he said. "We shall have to
wait for you to get thin again."

"How long does getting thin take?" asked Pooh anxiously.

"About a week, I should think."

"But I can't stay here for a _week_!"

"You can _stay_ here all right, silly old Bear. It's getting you out
which is so difficult."

"We'll read to you," said Rabbit cheerfully. "And I hope it won't snow,"
he added. "And I say, old fellow, you're taking up a good deal of room
in my house--_do_ you mind if I use your back legs as a towel-horse?
Because, I mean, there they are--doing nothing--and it would be very
convenient just to hang the towels on them."

"A week!" said Pooh gloomily. "_What about meals?_"

"I'm afraid no meals," said Christopher Robin, "because of getting thin
quicker. But we _will_ read to you."

Bear began to sigh, and then found he couldn't because he was so tightly
stuck; and a tear rolled down his eye, as he said:

"Then would you read a Sustaining Book, such as would help and comfort a
Wedged Bear in Great Tightness?"

So for a week Christopher Robin read that sort of book at the North end
of Pooh, and Rabbit hung his washing on the South end ... and in
between Bear felt himself getting slenderer and slenderer. And at the
end of the week Christopher Robin said, "_Now!_"

So he took hold of Pooh's front paws and Rabbit took hold of Christopher
Robin, and all Rabbit's friends and relations took hold of Rabbit, and
they all pulled together....

And for a long time Pooh only said "_Ow!_" ...

And "_Oh!_" ...

And then, all of a sudden, he said "_Pop!_" just as if a cork were
coming out of a bottle.

And Christopher Robin and Rabbit and all Rabbit's friends and relations
went head-over-heels backwards ... and on the top of them came
Winnie-the-Pooh--free!

So, with a nod of thanks to his friends, he went on with his walk
through the forest, humming proudly to himself. But, Christopher Robin
looked after him lovingly, and said to himself, "Silly old Bear!"




                              CHAPTER III

                   IN WHICH POOH AND PIGLET GO HUNTING
                        AND NEARLY CATCH A WOOZLE


The Piglet lived in a very grand house in the middle of a beech-tree,
and the beech-tree was in the middle of the forest, and the Piglet lived
in the middle of the house. Next to his house was a piece of broken
board which had: "TRESPASSERS W" on it. When Christopher Robin asked the
Piglet what it meant, he said it was his grandfather's name, and had
been in the family for a long time, Christopher Robin said you
_couldn't_ be called Trespassers W, and Piglet said yes, you could,
because his grandfather was, and it was short for Trespassers Will,
which was short for Trespassers William. And his grandfather had had two
names in case he lost one--Trespassers after an uncle, and William after
Trespassers.

"I've got two names," said Christopher Robin carelessly.

"Well, there you are, that proves it," said Piglet.

One fine winter's day when Piglet was brushing away the snow in front of
his house, he happened to look up, and there was Winnie-the-Pooh. Pooh
was walking round and round in a circle, thinking of something else, and
when Piglet called to him, he just went on walking.

"Hallo!" said Piglet, "what are _you_ doing?"

"Hunting," said Pooh.

"Hunting what?"

"Tracking something," said Winnie-the-Pooh very mysteriously.

"Tracking what?" said Piglet, coming closer.

"That's just what I ask myself. I ask myself, What?"

"What do you think you'll answer?"

"I shall have to wait until I catch up with it," said Winnie-the-Pooh.
"Now, look there." He pointed to the ground in front of him. "What do
you see there?"

"Tracks," said Piglet. "Paw-marks." He gave a little squeak of
excitement. "Oh, Pooh! Do you think it's a--a--a Woozle?"

"It may be," said Pooh. "Sometimes it is, and sometimes it isn't. You
never can tell with paw-marks."

With these few words he went on tracking, and Piglet, after watching him
for a minute or two, ran after him. Winnie-the-Pooh had come to a sudden
stop, and was bending over the tracks in a puzzled sort of way.

"What's the matter?" asked Piglet.

"It's a very funny thing," said Bear, "but there seem to be
_two_ animals now. This--whatever-it-was--has been joined by
another--whatever-it-is--and the two of them are now proceeding
in company. Would you mind coming with me, Piglet, in case they
turn out to be Hostile Animals?"

Piglet scratched his ear in a nice sort of way, and said that he had
nothing to do until Friday, and would be delighted to come, in case it
really _was_ a Woozle.

"You mean, in case it really is two Woozles," said Winnie-the-Pooh, and
Piglet said that anyhow he had nothing to do until Friday. So off they
went together.

There was a small spinney of larch trees just here, and it seemed as if
the two Woozles, if that is what they were, had been going round this
spinney; so round this spinney went Pooh and Piglet after them; Piglet
passing the time by telling Pooh what his Grandfather Trespassers W had
done to Remove Stiffness after Tracking, and how his Grandfather
Trespassers W had suffered in his later years from Shortness of Breath,
and other matters of interest, and Pooh wondering what a Grandfather was
like, and if perhaps this was Two Grandfathers they were after now, and,
if so, whether he would be allowed to take one home and keep it, and
what Christopher Robin would say. And still the tracks went on in front
of them....

Suddenly Winnie-the-Pooh stopped, and pointed excitedly in front of him.
"_Look!_"

"_What?_" said Piglet, with a jump. And then, to show that he hadn't
been frightened, he jumped up and down once or twice more in an
exercising sort of way.

"The tracks!" said Pooh. "_A third animal has joined the other two!_"

"Pooh!" cried Piglet. "Do you think it is another Woozle?"

"No," said Pooh, "because it makes different marks. It is either Two
Woozles and one, as it might be, Wizzle, or Two, as it might be, Wizzles
and one, if so it is, Woozle. Let us continue to follow them."

So they went on, feeling just a little anxious now, in case the three
animals in front of them were of Hostile Intent. And Piglet wished very
much that his Grandfather T. W. were there, instead of elsewhere, and
Pooh thought how nice it would be if they met Christopher Robin suddenly
but quite accidentally, and only because he liked Christopher Robin so
much. And then, all of a sudden, Winnie-the-Pooh stopped again, and
licked the tip of his nose in a cooling manner, for he was feeling more
hot and anxious than ever in his life before. _There were four animals
in front of them!_

"Do you see, Piglet? Look at their tracks! Three, as it were, Woozles,
and one, as it was, Wizzle. _Another Woozle has joined them!_"

And so it seemed to be. There were the tracks; crossing over each other
here, getting muddled up with each other there; but, quite plainly every
now and then, the tracks of four sets of paws.

"I _think_," said Piglet, when he had licked the tip of his nose too,
and found that it brought very little comfort, "I _think_ that I have
just remembered something. I have just remembered something that I
forgot to do yesterday and shan't be able to do to-morrow. So I suppose
I really ought to go back and do it now."

"We'll do it this afternoon, and I'll come with you," said Pooh.

"It isn't the sort of thing you can do in the afternoon," said Piglet
quickly. "It's a very particular morning thing, that has to be done in
the morning, and, if possible, between the hours of----What would you
say the time was?"

"About twelve," said Winnie-the-Pooh, looking at the sun.

"Between, as I was saying, the hours of twelve and twelve five. So,
really, dear old Pooh, if you'll excuse me----_What's that?_"

Pooh looked up at the sky, and then, as he heard the whistle again, he
looked up into the branches of a big oak-tree, and then he saw a friend
of his.

"It's Christopher Robin," he said.

"Ah, then you'll be all right," said Piglet. "You'll be quite safe with
_him_. Good-bye," and he trotted off home as quickly as he could, very
glad to be Out of All Danger again.

Christopher Robin came slowly down his tree.

"Silly old Bear," he said, "what _were_ you doing? First you went round
the spinney twice by yourself, and then Piglet ran after you and you
went round again together, and then you were just going round a fourth
time----"

"Wait a moment," said Winnie-the-Pooh, holding up his paw.

He sat down and thought, in the most thoughtful way he could think. Then
he fitted his paw into one of the Tracks ... and then he scratched his
nose twice, and stood up.

"Yes," said Winnie-the-Pooh.

"I see now," said Winnie-the-Pooh.

"I have been Foolish and Deluded," said he, "and I am a Bear of No Brain
at All."

"You're the Best Bear in All the World," said Christopher Robin
soothingly.

"Am I?" said Pooh hopefully. And then he brightened up suddenly.

"Anyhow," he said, "it is nearly Luncheon Time."

So he went home for it.




                               CHAPTER IV

                      IN WHICH EEYORE LOSES A TAIL
                           AND POOH FINDS ONE


The Old Grey Donkey, Eeyore, stood by himself in a thistly corner of
the forest, his front feet well apart, his head on one side, and thought
about things. Sometimes he thought sadly to himself, "Why?" and
sometimes he thought, "Wherefore?" and sometimes he thought, "Inasmuch
as which?"--and sometimes he didn't quite know what he _was_ thinking
about. So when Winnie-the-Pooh came stumping along, Eeyore was very glad
to be able to stop thinking for a little, in order to say "How do you
do?" in a gloomy manner to him.

"And how are you?" said Winnie-the-Pooh.

Eeyore shook his head from side to side.

"Not very how," he said. "I don't seem to have felt at all how for a
long time."

"Dear, dear," said Pooh, "I'm sorry about that. Let's have a look at
you."

So Eeyore stood there, gazing sadly at the ground, and Winnie-the-Pooh
walked all round him once.

"Why, what's happened to your tail?" he said in surprise.

"What _has_ happened to it?" said Eeyore.

"It isn't there!"

"Are you sure?"

"Well, either a tail _is_ there or it isn't there. You can't make a
mistake about it. And yours _isn't_ there!"

"Then what is?"

"Nothing."

"Let's have a look," said Eeyore, and he turned slowly round to the
place where his tail had been a little while ago, and then, finding that
he couldn't catch it up, he turned round the other way, until he came
back to where he was at first, and then he put his head down and looked
between his front legs, and at last he said, with a long, sad sigh, "I
believe you're right."

"Of course I'm right," said Pooh.

"That Accounts for a Good Deal," said Eeyore gloomily. "It Explains
Everything. No Wonder."

"You must have left it somewhere," said Winnie-the-Pooh.

"Somebody must have taken it," said Eeyore. "How Like Them," he added,
after a long silence.

Pooh felt that he ought to say something helpful about it, but didn't
quite know what. So he decided to do something helpful instead.

"Eeyore," he said solemnly, "I, Winnie-the-Pooh, will find your tail for
you."

"Thank you, Pooh," answered Eeyore. "You're a real friend," said he.
"Not like Some," he said.

So Winnie-the-Pooh went off to find Eeyore's tail.

It was a fine spring morning in the forest as he started out. Little
soft clouds played happily in a blue sky, skipping from time to time in
front of the sun as if they had come to put it out, and then sliding
away suddenly so that the next might have his turn. Through them and
between them the sun shone bravely; and a copse which had worn its firs
all the year round seemed old and dowdy now beside the new green lace
which the beeches had put on so prettily. Through copse and spinney
marched Bear; down open slopes of gorse and heather, over rocky beds of
streams, up steep banks of sandstone into the heather again; and so at
last, tired and hungry, to the Hundred Acre Wood. For it was in the
Hundred Acre Wood that Owl lived.

"And if anyone knows anything about anything," said Bear to himself,
"it's Owl who knows something about something," he said, "or my name's
not Winnie-the-Pooh," he said. "Which it is," he added. "So there you
are."

Owl lived at The Chestnuts, an old-world residence of great charm, which
was grander than anybody else's, or seemed so to Bear, because it had
both a knocker _and_ a bell-pull. Underneath the knocker there was a
notice which said:

                   PLES RING IF AN RNSER IS REQIRD.

Underneath the bell-pull there was a notice which said:

                  PLEZ CNOKE IF AN RNSR IS NOT REQID.

These notices had been written by Christopher Robin, who was the only
one in the forest who could spell; for Owl, wise though he was in many
ways, able to read and write and spell his own name WOL, yet somehow
went all to pieces over delicate words like MEASLES and BUTTEREDTOAST.

Winnie-the-Pooh read the two notices very carefully, first from left to
right, and afterwards, in case he had missed some of it, from right to
left. Then, to make quite sure, he knocked and pulled the knocker, and
he pulled and knocked the bell-rope, and he called out in a very loud
voice, "Owl! I require an answer! It's Bear speaking." And the door
opened, and Owl looked out.

"Hallo, Pooh," he said. "How's things?"

"Terrible and Sad," said Pooh, "because Eeyore, who is a friend of mine,
has lost his tail. And he's Moping about it. So could you very kindly
tell me how to find it for him?"

"Well," said Owl, "the customary procedure in such cases is as follows."

"What does Crustimoney Proseedcake mean?" said Pooh. "For I am a Bear of
Very Little Brain, and long words Bother me."

"It means the Thing to Do."

"As long as it means that, I don't mind," said Pooh humbly.

"The thing to do is as follows. First, Issue a Reward. Then----"

"Just a moment," said Pooh, holding up his paw. "_What_ do we do to
this--what you were saying? You sneezed just as you were going to tell
me."

"I _didn't_ sneeze."

"Yes, you did, Owl."

"Excuse me, Pooh, I didn't. You can't sneeze without knowing it."

"Well, you can't know it without something having been sneezed."

"What I _said_ was, 'First _Issue_ a Reward'."

"You're doing it again," said Pooh sadly.

"A Reward!" said Owl very loudly. "We write a notice to say that we will
give a large something to anybody who finds Eeyore's tail."

"I see, I see," said Pooh, nodding his head. "Talking about large
somethings," he went on dreamily, "I generally have a small something
about now--about this time in the morning," and he looked wistfully at
the cupboard in the corner of Owl's parlour; "just a mouthful of
condensed milk or whatnot, with perhaps a lick of honey----"

"Well, then," said Owl, "we write out this notice, and we put it up all
over the forest."

"A lick of honey," murmured Bear to himself, "or--or not, as the case
may be." And he gave a deep sigh, and tried very hard to listen to what
Owl was saying.

But Owl went on and on, using longer and longer words, until at last he
came back to where he started, and he explained that the person to write
out this notice was Christopher Robin.

"It was he who wrote the ones on my front door for me. Did you see them,
Pooh?"

For some time now Pooh had been saying "Yes" and "No" in turn, with his
eyes shut, to all that Owl was saying, and having said, "Yes, yes," last
time, he said "No, not at all," now, without really knowing what Owl was
talking about.

"Didn't you see them?" said Owl, a little surprised. "Come and look at
them now."

So they went outside. And Pooh looked at the knocker and the notice
below it, and he looked at the bell-rope and the notice below it, and
the more he looked at the bell-rope, the more he felt that he had seen
something like it, somewhere else, sometime before.

"Handsome bell-rope, isn't it?" said Owl.

Pooh nodded.

"It reminds me of something," he said, "but I can't think what. Where
did you get it?"

"I just came across it in the Forest. It was hanging over a bush, and I
thought at first somebody lived there, so I rang it, and nothing
happened, and then I rang it again very loudly, and it came off in my
hand, and as nobody seemed to want it, I took it home, and----"

"Owl," said Pooh solemnly, "you made a mistake. Somebody did want it."

"Who?"

"Eeyore. My dear friend Eeyore. He was--he was fond of it."

"Fond of it?"

"Attached to it," said Winnie-the-Pooh sadly.

                 *        *        *        *        *

So with these words he unhooked it, and carried it back to Eeyore; and
when Christopher Robin had nailed it on in its right place again, Eeyore
frisked about the forest, waving his tail so happily that
Winnie-the-Pooh came over all funny, and had to hurry home for a little
snack of something to sustain him. And, wiping his mouth half an hour
afterwards, he sang to himself proudly:

    _Who found the Tail?_
      "I," said Pooh,
    "At a quarter to two
      (Only it was quarter to eleven really),
    _I_ found the Tail!"




                               CHAPTER V

                    IN WHICH PIGLET MEETS A HEFFALUMP


One day, when Christopher Robin and Winnie-the-Pooh and Piglet were
all talking together, Christopher Robin finished the mouthful he was
eating and said carelessly: "I saw a Heffalump to-day, Piglet."

"What was it doing?" asked Piglet.

"Just lumping along," said Christopher Robin. "I don't think it saw
_me_."

"I saw one once," said Piglet. "At least, I think I did," he said. "Only
perhaps it wasn't."

"So did I," said Pooh, wondering what a Heffalump was like.

"You don't often see them," said Christopher Robin carelessly.

"Not now," said Piglet.

"Not at this time of year," said Pooh.

Then they all talked about something else, until it was time for Pooh
and Piglet to go home together. At first as they stumped along the path
which edged the Hundred Acre Wood, they didn't say much to each other;
but when they came to the stream and had helped each other across the
stepping stones, and were able to walk side by side again over the
heather, they began to talk in a friendly way about this and that, and
Piglet said, "If you see what I mean, Pooh," and Pooh said, "It's just
what I think myself, Piglet," and Piglet said, "But, on the other hand,
Pooh, we must remember," and Pooh said, "Quite true, Piglet, although I
had forgotten it for the moment." And then, just as they came to the Six
Pine Trees, Pooh looked round to see that nobody else was listening, and
said in a very solemn voice:

"Piglet, I have decided something."

"What have you decided, Pooh?"

"I have decided to catch a Heffalump."

Pooh nodded his head several times as he said this, and waited for
Piglet to say "How?" or "Pooh, you couldn't!" or something helpful of
that sort, but Piglet said nothing. The fact was Piglet was wishing that
_he_ had thought about it first.

"I shall do it," said Pooh, after waiting a little longer, "by means of
a trap. And it must be a Cunning Trap, so you will have to help me,
Piglet."

"Pooh," said Piglet, feeling quite happy again now, "I will." And then
he said, "How shall we do it?" and Pooh said, "That's just it. How?" And
then they sat down together to think it out.

Pooh's first idea was that they should dig a Very Deep Pit, and then the
Heffalump would come along and fall into the Pit, and----

"Why?" said Piglet.

"Why what?" said Pooh.

"Why would he fall in?"

Pooh rubbed his nose with his paw, and said that the Heffalump might be
walking along, humming a little song, and looking up at the sky,
wondering if it would rain, and so he wouldn't see the Very Deep Pit
until he was half-way down, when it would be too late.

Piglet said that this was a very good Trap, but supposing it were
raining already?

Pooh rubbed his nose again, and said that he hadn't thought of that. And
then he brightened up, and said that, if it were raining already, the
Heffalump would be looking at the sky wondering if it would _clear up_,
and so he wouldn't see the Very Deep Pit until he was half-way
down.... When it would be too late.

Piglet said that, now that this point had been explained, he thought it
was a Cunning Trap.

Pooh was very proud when he heard this, and he felt that the Heffalump
was as good as caught already, but there was just one other thing which
had to be thought about, and it was this. _Where should they dig the
Very Deep Pit?_

Piglet said that the best place would be somewhere where a Heffalump
was, just before he fell into it, only about a foot farther on.

"But then he would see us digging it," said Pooh.

"Not if he was looking at the sky."

"He would Suspect," said Pooh, "if he happened to look down." He thought
for a long time and then added sadly, "It isn't as easy as I thought. I
suppose that's why Heffalumps hardly _ever_ get caught."

"That must be it," said Piglet.

They sighed and got up; and when they had taken a few gorse prickles out
of themselves they sat down again; and all the time Pooh was saying to
himself, "If only I could _think_ of something!" For he felt sure that a
Very Clever Brain could catch a Heffalump if only he knew the right way
to go about it.

"Suppose," he said to Piglet, "_you_ wanted to catch _me_, how would you
do it?"

"Well," said Piglet, "I should do it like this. I should make a Trap,
and I should put a Jar of Honey in the Trap, and you would smell it, and
you would go in after it, and----"

"And I would go in after it," said Pooh excitedly, "only very carefully
so as not to hurt myself, and I would get to the Jar of Honey, and I
should lick round the edges first of all, pretending that there wasn't
any more, you know, and then I should walk away and think about it a
little, and then I should come back and start licking in the middle of
the jar, and then----"

"Yes, well never mind about that. There you would be, and there I should
catch you. Now the first thing to think of is, What do Heffalumps like?
I should think acorns, shouldn't you? We'll get a lot of----I say, wake
up, Pooh!"

Pooh, who had gone into a happy dream, woke up with a start, and said
that Honey was a much more trappy thing than Haycorns. Piglet didn't
think so; and they were just going to argue about it, when Piglet
remembered that, if they put acorns in the Trap, _he_ would have to find
the acorns, but if they put honey, then Pooh would have to give up some
of his own honey, so he said, "All right, honey then," just as Pooh
remembered it too, and was going to say, "All right, haycorns."

"Honey," said Piglet to himself in a thoughtful way, as if it were now
settled. "_I'll_ dig the pit, while _you_ go and get the honey."

"Very well," said Pooh, and he stumped off.

As soon as he got home, he went to the larder; and he stood on a chair,
and took down a very large jar of honey from the top shelf. It had HUNNY
written on it, but, just to make sure, he took off the paper cover and
looked at it, and it _looked_ just like honey. "But you never can tell,"
said Pooh. "I remember my uncle saying once that he had seen cheese just
this colour." So he put his tongue in, and took a large lick. "Yes," he
said, "it is. No doubt about that. And honey, I should say, right down
to the bottom of the jar. Unless, of course," he said, "somebody put
cheese in at the bottom just for a joke. Perhaps I had better go a
_little_ further ... just in case ... in case Heffalumps _don't_
like cheese ... same as me.... Ah!" And he gave a deep sigh. "I
_was_ right. It _is_ honey, right the way down."

Having made certain of this, he took the jar back to Piglet, and Piglet
looked up from the bottom of his Very Deep Pit, and said, "Got it?" and
Pooh said, "Yes, but it isn't quite a full jar," and he threw it down to
Piglet, and Piglet said, "No, it isn't! Is that all you've got left?"
and Pooh said "Yes." Because it was. So Piglet put the jar at the bottom
of the Pit, and climbed out, and they went off home together.

"Well, good night, Pooh," said Piglet, when they had got to Pooh's
house. "And we meet at six o'clock to-morrow morning by the Pine Trees,
and see how many Heffalumps we've got in our Trap."

"Six o'clock, Piglet. And have you got any string?"

"No. Why do you want string?"

"To lead them home with."

"Oh! ... I _think_ Heffalumps come if you whistle."

"Some do and some don't. You never can tell with Heffalumps. Well, good
night!"

"Good night!"

And off Piglet trotted to his house TRESPASSERS W, while Pooh made his
preparations for bed.

Some hours later, just as the night was beginning to steal away, Pooh
woke up suddenly with a sinking feeling. He had had that sinking feeling
before, and he knew what it meant. _He was hungry._ So he went to the
larder, and he stood on a chair and reached up to the top shelf, and
found--nothing.

"That's funny," he thought. "I know I had a jar of honey there. A full
jar, full of honey right up to the top, and it had HUNNY written on it,
so that I should know it was honey. That's very funny." And then he
began to wander up and down, wondering where it was and murmuring a
murmur to himself. Like this:

    It's very, very funny,
    'Cos I _know_ I had some honey;
    'Cos it had a label on,
            Saying HUNNY.
    A goloptious full-up pot too,
    And I don't know where it's got to,
    No, I don't know where it's gone--
            Well, it's funny.

He had murmured this to himself three times in a singing sort of way,
when suddenly he remembered. He had put it into the Cunning Trap to
catch the Heffalump.

"Bother!" said Pooh. "It all comes of trying to be kind to Heffalumps."
And he got back into bed.

But he couldn't sleep. The more he tried to sleep, the more he couldn't.
He tried Counting Sheep, which is sometimes a good way of getting to
sleep, and, as that was no good, he tried counting Heffalumps. And that
was worse. Because every Heffalump that he counted was making straight
for a pot of Pooh's honey, _and eating it all_. For some minutes he lay
there miserably, but when the five hundred and eighty-seventh Heffalump
was licking its jaws, and saying to itself, "Very good honey this, I
don't know when I've tasted better," Pooh could bear it no longer. He
jumped out of bed, he ran out of the house, and he ran straight to the
Six Pine Trees.

The Sun was still in bed, but there was a lightness in the sky over the
Hundred Acre Wood which seemed to show that it was waking up and would
soon be kicking off the clothes. In the half-light the Pine Trees looked
cold and lonely, and the Very Deep Pit seemed deeper than it was, and
Pooh's jar of honey at the bottom was something mysterious, a shape and
no more. But as he got nearer to it his nose told him that it was indeed
honey, and his tongue came out and began to polish up his mouth, ready
for it.

"Bother!" said Pooh, as he got his nose inside the jar. "A Heffalump has
been eating it!" And then he thought a little and said, "Oh, no, _I_
did. I forgot."

Indeed, he had eaten most of it. But there was a little left at the very
bottom of the jar, and he pushed his head right in, and began to
lick....

By and by Piglet woke up. As soon as he woke he said to himself, "Oh!"
Then he said bravely, "Yes," and then, still more bravely, "Quite so."
But he didn't feel very brave, for the word which was really jiggeting
about in his brain was "Heffalumps."

What was a Heffalump like?

Was it Fierce?

_Did_ it come when you whistled? And _how_ did it come?

Was it Fond of Pigs at all?

If it was Fond of Pigs, did it make any difference _what sort of Pig_?

Supposing it was Fierce with Pigs, would it make any difference _if the
Pig had a grandfather called TRESPASSERS WILLIAM_?

He didn't know the answer to any of these questions ... and he was
going to see his first Heffalump in about an hour from now!

Of course Pooh would be with him, and it was much more Friendly with
two. But suppose Heffalumps were Very Fierce with Pigs _and_ Bears?
Wouldn't it be better to pretend that he had a headache, and couldn't go
up to the Six Pine Trees this morning? But then suppose that it was a
very fine day, and there was no Heffalump in the trap, here he would be,
in bed all the morning, simply wasting his time for nothing. What should
he do?

And then he had a Clever Idea. He would go up very quietly to the Six
Pine Trees now, peep very cautiously into the Trap, and see if there
_was_ a Heffalump there. And if there was, he would go back to bed, and
if there wasn't, he wouldn't.

So off he went. At first he thought that there wouldn't be a Heffalump
in the Trap, and then he thought that there would, and as he got nearer
he was _sure_ that there would, because he could hear it heffalumping
about it like anything.

"Oh, dear, oh, dear, oh, dear!" said Piglet to himself. And he wanted to
run away. But somehow, having got so near, he felt that he must just see
what a Heffalump was like. So he crept to the side of the Trap and
looked in....

And all the time Winnie-the-Pooh had been trying to get the honey-jar
off his head. The more he shook it, the more tightly it stuck.

"_Bother!_" he said, inside the jar, and "_Oh, help!_" and, mostly,
"_Ow!_" And he tried bumping it against things, but as he couldn't see
what he was bumping it against, it didn't help him; and he tried to
climb out of the Trap, but as he could see nothing but jar, and not much
of that, he couldn't find his way. So at last he lifted up his head, jar
and all, and made a loud, roaring noise of Sadness and Despair ... and
it was at that moment that Piglet looked down.

"Help, help!" cried Piglet, "a Heffalump, a Horrible Heffalump!" and he
scampered off as hard as he could, still crying out, "Help, help, a
Herrible Hoffalump! Hoff, Hoff, a Hellible Horralump! Holl, Holl, a
Hoffable Hellerump!" And he didn't stop crying and scampering until he
got to Christopher Robin's house.

"Whatever's the matter, Piglet?" said Christopher Robin, who was just
getting up.

"Heff," said Piglet, breathing so hard that he could hardly speak, "a
Heff--a Heff--a Heffalump."

"Where?"

"Up there," said Piglet, waving his paw.

"What did it look like?"

"Like--like----It had the biggest head you ever saw, Christopher Robin.
A great enormous thing, like--like nothing. A huge big--well, like a--I
don't know--like an enormous big nothing. Like a jar."

"Well," said Christopher Robin, putting on his shoes, "I shall go and
look at it. Come on."

Piglet wasn't afraid if he had Christopher Robin with him, so off they
went....

"I can hear it, can't you?" said Piglet anxiously, as they got near.

"I can hear _something_," said Christopher Robin.

It was Pooh bumping his head against a tree-root he had found.

"There!" said Piglet. "Isn't it _awful_?" And he held on tight to
Christopher Robin's hand.

Suddenly Christopher Robin began to laugh ... and he laughed ... and he
laughed ... and he laughed. And while he was still laughing--_Crash_
went the Heffalump's head against the tree-root, Smash went the jar,
and out came Pooh's head again....

Then Piglet saw what a Foolish Piglet he had been, and he was so ashamed
of himself that he ran straight off home and went to bed with a
headache. But Christopher Robin and Pooh went home to breakfast
together.

"Oh, Bear!" said Christopher Robin. "How I do love you!"

"So do I," said Pooh.




                               CHAPTER VI

                     IN WHICH EEYORE HAS A BIRTHDAY
                          AND GETS TWO PRESENTS


Eeyore, the old grey Donkey, stood by the side of the stream, and
looked at himself in the water.

"Pathetic," he said. "That's what it is. Pathetic."

He turned and walked slowly down the stream for twenty yards, splashed
across it, and walked slowly back on the other side. Then he looked at
himself in the water again.

"As I thought," he said. "No better from _this_ side. But nobody minds.
Nobody cares. Pathetic, that's what it is."

There was a crackling noise in the bracken behind him, and out came
Pooh.

"Good morning, Eeyore," said Pooh.

"Good morning, Pooh Bear," said Eeyore gloomily. "If it _is_ a good
morning," he said. "Which I doubt," said he.

"Why, what's the matter?"

"Nothing, Pooh Bear, nothing. We can't all, and some of us don't. That's
all there is to it."

"Can't all _what_?" said Pooh, rubbing his nose.

"Gaiety. Song-and-dance. Here we go round the mulberry bush."

"Oh!" said Pooh. He thought for a long time, and then asked, "What
mulberry bush is that?"

"Bon-hommy," went on Eeyore gloomily. "French word meaning bonhommy," he
explained. "I'm not complaining, but There It Is."

Pooh sat down on a large stone, and tried to think this out. It sounded
to him like a riddle, and he was never much good at riddles, being a
Bear of Very Little Brain. So he sang _Cottleston Pie_ instead:

    Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,
    A fly can't bird, but a bird can fly.
    Ask me a riddle and I reply:
    "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie._"

That was the first verse. When he had finished it, Eeyore didn't
actually say that he didn't like it, so Pooh very kindly sang the second
verse to him:

    Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,
    A fish can't whistle and neither can I.
    Ask me a riddle and I reply:
    "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie_."

Eeyore still said nothing at all, so Pooh hummed the third verse quietly
to himself:

    Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie,
    Why does a chicken, I don't know why.
    Ask me a riddle and I reply:
    "_Cottleston, Cottleston, Cottleston Pie_."

"That's right," said Eeyore. "Sing. Umty-tiddly, umty-too. Here we go
gathering Nuts and May. Enjoy yourself."

"I am," said Pooh.

"Some can," said Eeyore.

"Why, what's the matter?"

"_Is_ anything the matter?"

"You seem so sad, Eeyore."

"Sad? Why should I be sad? It's my birthday. The happiest day of the
year."

"Your birthday?" said Pooh in great surprise.

"Of course it is. Can't you see? Look at all the presents I have had."
He waved a foot from side to side. "Look at the birthday cake. Candles
and pink sugar."

Pooh looked--first to the right and then to the left.

"Presents?" said Pooh. "Birthday cake?" said Pooh. "_Where?_"

"Can't you see them?"

"No," said Pooh.

"Neither can I," said Eeyore. "Joke," he explained. "Ha ha!"

Pooh scratched his head, being a little puzzled by all this.

"But is it really your birthday?" he asked.

"It is."

"Oh! Well, Many happy returns of the day, Eeyore."

"And many happy returns to you, Pooh Bear."

"But it isn't _my_ birthday."

"No, it's mine."

"But you said 'Many happy returns'----"

"Well, why not? You don't always want to be miserable on my birthday, do
you?"

"Oh, I see," said Pooh.

"It's bad enough," said Eeyore, almost breaking down, "being miserable
myself, what with no presents and no cake and no candles, and no proper
notice taken of me at all, but if everybody else is going to be
miserable too----"

This was too much for Pooh. "Stay there!" he called to Eeyore, as he
turned and hurried back home as quick as he could; for he felt that he
must get poor Eeyore a present of _some_ sort at once, and he could
always think of a proper one afterwards.

Outside his house he found Piglet, jumping up and down trying to reach
the knocker.

"Hallo, Piglet," he said.

"Hallo, Pooh," said Piglet.

"What are _you_ trying to do?"

"I was trying to reach the knocker," said Piglet. "I just came
round----"

"Let me do it for you," said Pooh kindly. So he reached up and knocked
at the door. "I have just seen Eeyore," he began, "and poor Eeyore is in
a Very Sad Condition, because it's his birthday, and nobody has taken
any notice of it, and he's very Gloomy--you know what Eeyore is--and
there he was, and----What a long time whoever lives here is answering
this door." And he knocked again.

"But Pooh," said Piglet, "it's your own house!"

"Oh!" said Pooh. "So it is," he said. "Well, let's go in."

So in they went. The first thing Pooh did was to go to the cupboard to
see if he had quite a small jar of honey left; and he had, so he took it
down.

"I'm giving this to Eeyore," he explained, "as a present. What are _you_
going to give?"

"Couldn't I give it too?" said Piglet. "From both of us?"

"No," said Pooh. "That would _not_ be a good plan."

"All right, then, I'll give him a balloon. I've got one left from my
party. I'll go and get it now, shall I?"

"That, Piglet, is a _very_ good idea. It is just what Eeyore wants to
cheer him up. Nobody can be uncheered with a balloon."

So off Piglet trotted; and in the other direction went Pooh, with his
jar of honey.

It was a warm day, and he had a long way to go. He hadn't gone more than
half-way when a sort of funny feeling began to creep all over him. It
began at the tip of his nose and trickled all through him and out at the
soles of his feet. It was just as if somebody inside him were saying,
"Now then, Pooh, time for a little something."

"Dear, dear," said Pooh, "I didn't know it was as late as that." So he
sat down and took the top off his jar of honey. "Lucky I brought this
with me," he thought. "Many a bear going out on a warm day like this
would never have thought of bringing a little something with him." And
he began to eat.

"Now let me see," he thought, as he took his last lick of the inside of
the jar, "where was I going? Ah, yes, Eeyore." He got up slowly.

And then, suddenly, he remembered. He had eaten Eeyore's birthday
present!

"_Bother!_" said Pooh. "What _shall_ I do? I _must_ give him
_something_."

For a little while he couldn't think of anything. Then he thought:
"Well, it's a very nice pot, even if there's no honey in it, and if I
washed it clean, and got somebody to write '_A Happy Birthday_' on it,
Eeyore could keep things in it, which might be Useful." So, as he was
just passing the Hundred Acre Wood, he went inside to call on Owl, who
lived there.

"Good morning, Owl," he said.

"Good morning, Pooh," said Owl.

"Many happy returns of Eeyore's birthday," said Pooh.

"Oh, is that what it is?"

"What are you giving him, Owl?"

"What are _you_ giving him, Pooh?"

"I'm giving him a Useful Pot to Keep Things In, and I wanted to ask
you----"

"Is this it?" said Owl, taking it out of Pooh's paw.

"Yes, and I wanted to ask you----"

"Somebody has been keeping honey in it," said Owl.

"You can keep _anything_ in it," said Pooh earnestly. "It's Very Useful
like that. And I wanted to ask you----"

"You ought to write '_A Happy Birthday_' on it."

"_That_ was what I wanted to ask you," said Pooh. "Because my spelling
is Wobbly. It's good spelling but it Wobbles, and the letters get in the
wrong places. Would _you_ write 'A Happy Birthday' on it for me?"

"It's a nice pot," said Owl, looking at it all round. "Couldn't I give
it too? From both of us?"

"No," said Pooh. "That would _not_ be a good plan. Now I'll just wash it
first, and then you can write on it."

Well, he washed the pot out, and dried it, while Owl licked the end of
his pencil, and wondered how to spell "birthday."

"Can you read, Pooh?" he asked a little anxiously. "There's a notice
about knocking and ringing outside my door, which Christopher Robin
wrote. Could you read it?"

"Christopher Robin told me what it said, and _then_ I could."

"Well, I'll tell you what _this_ says, and then you'll be able to."

So Owl wrote ... and this is what he wrote:

                 HIPY PAPY BTHUTHDTH THUTHDA BTHUTHDY.

Pooh looked on admiringly.

"I'm just saying 'A Happy Birthday'," said Owl carelessly.

"It's a nice long one," said Pooh, very much impressed by it.

"Well, _actually_, of course, I'm saying 'A Very Happy Birthday with
love from Pooh.' Naturally it takes a good deal of pencil to say a long
thing like that."

"Oh, I see," said Pooh.

While all this was happening, Piglet had gone back to his own house to
get Eeyore's balloon. He held it very tightly against himself, so that
it shouldn't blow away, and he ran as fast as he could so as to get to
Eeyore before Pooh did; for he thought that he would like to be the
first one to give a present, just as if he had thought of it without
being told by anybody. And running along, and thinking how pleased
Eeyore would be, he didn't look where he was going ... and suddenly he
put his foot in a rabbit hole, and fell down flat on his face.

BANG!!!???***!!!

Piglet lay there, wondering what had happened. At first he thought that
the whole world had blown up; and then he thought that perhaps only the
Forest part of it had; and then he thought that perhaps only _he_ had,
and he was now alone in the moon or somewhere, and would never see
Christopher Robin or Pooh or Eeyore again. And then he thought, "Well,
even if I'm in the moon, I needn't be face downwards all the time," so
he got cautiously up and looked about him.

He was still in the Forest!

"Well, that's funny," he thought. "I wonder what that bang was. I
couldn't have made such a noise just falling down. And where's my
balloon? And what's that small piece of damp rag doing?"

It was the balloon!

"Oh, dear!" said Piglet "Oh, dear, oh, dearie, dearie, dear! Well, it's
too late now. I can't go back, and I haven't another balloon, and
perhaps Eeyore doesn't _like_ balloons so _very_ much."

So he trotted on, rather sadly now, and down he came to the side of the
stream where Eeyore was, and called out to him.

"Good morning, Eeyore," shouted Piglet.

"Good morning, Little Piglet," said Eeyore. "If it _is_ a good morning,"
he said. "Which I doubt," said he. "Not that it matters," he said.

"Many happy returns of the day," said Piglet, having now got closer.

Eeyore stopped looking at himself in the stream, and turned to stare at
Piglet.

"Just say that again," he said.

"Many hap----"

"Wait a moment."

Balancing on three legs, he began to bring his fourth leg very
cautiously up to his ear. "I did this yesterday," he explained, as he
fell down for the third time. "It's quite easy. It's so as I can hear
better.... There, that's done it! Now then, what were you saying?" He
pushed his ear forward with his hoof.

"Many happy returns of the day," said Piglet again.

"Meaning me?"

"Of course, Eeyore."

"My birthday?"

"Yes."

"Me having a real birthday?"

"Yes, Eeyore, and I've brought you a present."

Eeyore took down his right hoof from his right ear, turned round, and
with great difficulty put up his left hoof.

"I must have that in the other ear," he said. "Now then."

"A present," said Piglet very loudly.

"Meaning me again?"

"Yes."

"My birthday still?"

"Of course, Eeyore."

"Me going on having a real birthday?"

"Yes, Eeyore, and I brought you a balloon."

"_Balloon?_" said Eeyore. "You did say balloon? One of those big
coloured things you blow up? Gaiety, song-and-dance, here we are and
there we are?"

"Yes, but I'm afraid--I'm very sorry, Eeyore--but when I was running
along to bring it you, I fell down."

"Dear, dear, how unlucky! You ran too fast, I expect. You didn't hurt
yourself, Little Piglet?"

"No, but I--I--oh, Eeyore, I burst the balloon!"

There was a very long silence.

"My balloon?" said Eeyore at last.

Piglet nodded.

"My birthday balloon?"

"Yes, Eeyore," said Piglet sniffing a little. "Here it is. With--with
many happy returns of the day." And he gave Eeyore the small piece of
damp rag.

"Is this it?" said Eeyore, a little surprised.

Piglet nodded.

"My present?"

Piglet nodded again.

"The balloon?"

"Yes."

"Thank you, Piglet," said Eeyore. "You don't mind my asking," he went
on, "but what colour was this balloon when it--when it _was_ a balloon?"

"Red."

"I just wondered.... Red," he murmured to himself. "My favourite
colour.... How big was it?"

"About as big as me."

"I just wondered.... About as big as Piglet," he said to himself
sadly. "My favourite size. Well, well."

Piglet felt very miserable, and didn't know what to say. He was still
opening his mouth to begin something, and then deciding that it wasn't
any good saying _that_, when he heard a shout from the other side of the
river, and there was Pooh.

"Many happy returns of the day," called out Pooh, forgetting that he had
said it already.

"Thank you, Pooh, I'm having them," said Eeyore gloomily.

"I've brought you a little present," said Pooh excitedly.

"I've had it," said Eeyore.

Pooh had now splashed across the stream to Eeyore, and Piglet was
sitting a little way off, his head in his paws, snuffling to himself.

"It's a Useful Pot," said Pooh. "Here it is. And it's got 'A Very Happy
Birthday with love from Pooh' written on it. That's what all that
writing is. And it's for putting things in. There!"

When Eeyore saw the pot, he became quite excited.

"Why!" he said. "I believe my Balloon will just go into that Pot!"

"Oh, no, Eeyore," said Pooh. "Balloons are much too big to go into Pots.
What you do with a balloon is, you hold the ballon----"

"Not mine," said Eeyore proudly. "Look, Piglet!" And as Piglet looked
sorrowfully round, Eeyore picked the balloon up with his teeth, and
placed it carefully in the pot; picked it out and put it on the ground;
and then picked it up again and put it carefully back.

"So it does!" said Pooh. "It goes in!"

"So it does!" said Piglet. "And it comes out!"

"Doesn't it?" said Eeyore. "It goes in and out like anything."

"I'm very glad," said Pooh happily, "that I thought of giving you a
Useful Pot to put things in."

"I'm very glad," said Piglet happily, "that I thought of giving you
Something to put in a Useful Pot."

But Eeyore wasn't listening. He was taking the balloon out, and putting
it back again, as happy as could be....

                 *        *        *        *        *

"And didn't _I_ give him anything?" asked Christopher Robin sadly.

"Of course you did," I said. "You gave him--don't you remember--a
little--a little----"

"I gave him a box of paints to paint things with."

"That was it."

"Why didn't I give it to him in the morning?"

"You were so busy getting his party ready for him. He had a cake with
icing on the top, and three candles, and his name in pink sugar,
and----"

"Yes, _I_ remember," said Christopher Robin.




                              CHAPTER VII

                    IN WHICH KANGA AND BABY ROO COME
                  TO THE FOREST, AND PIGLET HAS A BATH


Nobody seemed to know where they came from, but there they were in the
Forest: Kanga and Baby Roo. When Pooh asked Christopher Robin, "How did
they come here?" Christopher Robin said, "In the Usual Way, if you know
what I mean, Pooh," and Pooh, who didn't, said "Oh!" Then he nodded his
head twice and said, "In the Usual Way. Ah!" Then he went to call upon
his friend Piglet to see what _he_ thought about it. And at Piglet's
house he found Rabbit. So they all talked about it together.

"What I don't like about it is this," said Rabbit. "Here are we--you,
Pooh, and you, Piglet, and Me--and suddenly----"

"And Eeyore," said Pooh.

"And Eeyore--and then suddenly----"

"And Owl," said Pooh.

"And Owl--and then all of a sudden----"

"Oh, and Eeyore," said Pooh. "I was forgetting _him_."

"Here--we--are," said Rabbit very slowly and carefully, "all--of--us,
and then, suddenly, we wake up one morning and, what do we find? We find
a Strange Animal among us. An animal of whom we have never even heard
before! An animal who carries her family about with her in her pocket!
Suppose _I_ carried _my_ family about with me in _my_ pocket, how many
pockets should I want?"

"Sixteen," said Piglet.

"Seventeen, isn't it?" said Rabbit. "And one more for a
handkerchief--that's eighteen. Eighteen pockets in one suit! I haven't
time."

There was a long and thoughtful silence ... and then Pooh, who had
been frowning very hard for some minutes, said: "_I_ make it fifteen."

"What?" said Rabbit.

"Fifteen."

"Fifteen what?"

"Your family."

"What about them?"

Pooh rubbed his nose and said that he thought Rabbit had been talking
about his family.

"Did I?" said Rabbit carelessly.

"Yes, you said----"

"Never mind, Pooh," said Piglet impatiently.

"The question is, What are we to do about Kanga?"

"Oh, I see," said Pooh.

"The best way," said Rabbit, "would be this. The best way would be to
steal Baby Roo and hide him, and then when Kanga says, 'Where's Baby
Roo?' we say, '_Aha!_'"

"_Aha!_" said Pooh, practising. "_Aha! Aha!_ ... Of course," he went
on, "we could say 'Aha!' even if we hadn't stolen Baby Roo."

"Pooh," said Rabbit kindly, "you haven't any brain."

"I know," said Pooh humbly.

"We say '_Aha!_' so that Kanga knows that _we_ know where Baby Roo is.
'_Aha!_' means 'We'll tell you where Baby Roo is, if you promise to go
away from the Forest and never come back.' Now don't talk while I
think."

Pooh went into a corner and tried saying 'Aha!' in that sort of voice.
Sometimes it seemed to him that it did mean what Rabbit said, and
sometimes it seemed to him that it didn't. "I suppose it's just
practice," he thought. "I wonder if Kanga will have to practise too so
as to understand it."

"There's just one thing," said Piglet, fidgeting a bit. "I was talking
to Christopher Robin, and he said that a Kanga was Generally Regarded as
One of the Fiercer Animals. I am not frightened of Fierce Animals in the
ordinary way, but it is well known that, if One of the Fiercer Animals
is Deprived of Its Young, it becomes as fierce as Two of the Fiercer
Animals. In which case '_Aha!_' is perhaps a _foolish_ thing to say."

"Piglet," said Rabbit, taking out a pencil, and licking the end of it,
"you haven't any pluck."

"It is hard to be brave," said Piglet, sniffing slightly, "when you're
only a Very Small Animal."

Rabbit, who had begun to write very busily, looked up and said:

"It is because you are a very small animal that you will be Useful in
the adventure before us."

Piglet was so excited at the idea of being Useful, that he forgot to be
frightened any more, and when Rabbit went on to say that Kangas were
only Fierce during the winter months, being at other times of an
Affectionate Disposition, he could hardly sit still, he was so eager to
begin being useful at once.

"What about me?" said Pooh sadly. "I suppose _I_ shan't be useful?"

"Never mind, Pooh," said Piglet comfortingly. "Another time perhaps."

"Without Pooh," said Rabbit solemnly as he sharpened his pencil, "the
adventure would be impossible."

"Oh!" said Piglet, and tried not to look disappointed. But Pooh went
into a corner of the room and said proudly to himself, "Impossible
without Me! _That_ sort of Bear."

"Now listen all of you," said Rabbit when he had finished writing, and
Pooh and Piglet sat listening very eagerly with their mouths open. This
was what Rabbit read out:

                        PLAN TO CAPTURE BABY ROO

   1. _General Remarks._ Kanga runs faster than any of Us, even Me.

   2. _More General Remarks._ Kanga never takes her eye off Baby Roo,
      except when he's safely buttoned up in her pocket.

   3. _Therefore._ If we are to capture Baby Roo, we must get a Long
      Start, because Kanga runs faster than any of Us, even Me.
     (_See_ 1.)

   4. _A Thought._ If Roo had jumped out of Kanga's pocket and Piglet
      had jumped in, Kanga wouldn't know the difference, because Piglet
      is a Very Small Animal.

   5. Like Roo.

   6. But Kanga would have to be looking the other way first, so as not
      to see Piglet jumping in.

   7. See 2.

   8. _Another Thought._ But if Pooh was talking to her very excitedly,
      she _might_ look the other way for a moment.

   9. And then I could run away with Roo.

   10. Quickly.

   11. _And Kanga wouldn't discover the difference until Afterwards._

Well, Rabbit read this out proudly, and for a little while after he had
read it nobody said anything. And then Piglet, who had been opening and
shutting his mouth without making any noise, managed to say very
huskily:

"And--Afterwards?"

"How do you mean?"

"When Kanga _does_ Discover the Difference?"

"Then we all say '_Aha!_'"

"All three of us?"

"Yes."

"Oh!"

"Why, what's the trouble, Piglet?"

"Nothing," said Piglet, "as long as _we all three_ say it. As long as we
all three say it," said Piglet, "I don't mind," he said, "but I
shouldn't care to say '_Aha!_' by myself. It wouldn't sound _nearly_ so
well. By the way," he said, "you _are_ quite sure about what you said
about the winter months?"

"The winter months?"

"Yes, only being Fierce in the Winter Months."

"Oh, yes, yes, that's all right. Well, Pooh? You see what you have to
do?"

"No," said Pooh Bear. "Not yet," he said. "What _do_ I do?"

"Well, you just have to talk very hard to Kanga so as she doesn't notice
anything."

"Oh! What about?"

"Anything you like."

"You mean like telling her a little bit of poetry or something?"

"That's it," said Rabbit. "Splendid. Now come along."

So they all went out to look for Kanga.

Kanga and Roo were spending a quiet afternoon in a sandy part of the
Forest. Baby Roo was practising very small jumps in the sand, and
falling down mouse-holes and climbing out of them, and Kanga was
fidgeting about and saying "Just one more jump, dear, and then we must
go home." And at that moment who should come stumping up the hill but
Pooh.

"Good afternoon, Kanga."

"Good afternoon, Pooh."

"Look at me jumping," squeaked Roo, and fell into another mouse-hole.

"Hallo, Roo, my little fellow!"

"We were just going home," said Kanga. "Good afternoon, Rabbit. Good
afternoon, Piglet."

Rabbit and Piglet, who had now come up from the other side of the hill,
said "Good afternoon," and "Hallo, Roo," and Roo asked them to look at
him jumping, so they stayed and looked.

And Kanga looked too....

"Oh, Kanga," said Pooh, after Rabbit had winked at him twice, "I don't
know if you are interested in Poetry at all?"

"Hardly at all," said Kanga.

"Oh!" said Pooh.

"Roo, dear, just one more jump and then we must go home."

There was a short silence while Roo fell down another mouse-hole.

"Go on," said Rabbit in a loud whisper behind his paw.

"Talking of Poetry," said Pooh, "I made up a little piece as I was
coming along. It went like this. Er--now let me see----"

"Fancy!" said Kanga. "Now Roo, dear----"

"You'll like this piece of poetry," said Rabbit.

"You'll love it," said Piglet.

"You must listen very carefully," said Rabbit.

"So as not to miss any of it," said Piglet.

"Oh, yes," said Kanga, but she still looked at Baby Roo.

"_How_ did it go, Pooh?" said Rabbit.

Pooh gave a little cough and began.

              LINES WRITTEN BY A BEAR OF VERY LITTLE BRAIN

    On Monday, when the sun is hot
    I wonder to myself a lot:
    "Now is it true, or is it not,
    "That what is which and which is what?"

    On Tuesday, when it hails and snows,
    The feeling on me grows and grows
    That hardly anybody knows
    If those are these or these are those.

    On Wednesday, when the sky is blue,
    And I have nothing else to do,
    I sometimes wonder if it's true
    That who is what and what is who.

    On Thursday, when it starts to freeze
    And hoar-frost twinkles on the trees,
    How very readily one sees
    That these are whose--but whose are these?

    On Friday----

"Yes, it is, isn't it?" said Kanga, not waiting to hear what happened on
Friday. "Just one more jump, Roo, dear, and then we really _must_ be
going."

Rabbit gave Pooh a hurrying-up sort of nudge.

"Talking of Poetry," said Pooh quickly, "have you ever noticed that tree
right over there?"

"Where?" said Kanga. "Now, Roo----"

"Right over there," said Pooh, pointing behind Kanga's back.

"No," said Kanga. "Now jump in, Roo, dear, and we'll go home."

"You ought to look at that tree right over there," said Rabbit. "Shall I
lift you in, Roo?" And he picked up Roo in his paws.

"I can see a bird in it from here," said Pooh. "Or is it a fish?"

"You ought to see that bird from here," said Rabbit. "Unless it's a
fish."

"It isn't a fish, it's a bird," said Piglet.

"So it is," said Rabbit.

"Is it a starling or a blackbird?" said Pooh.

"That's the whole question," said Rabbit. "Is it a blackbird or a
starling?"

And then at last Kanga did turn her head to look. And the moment that
her head was turned, Rabbit said in a loud voice "In you go, Roo!" and
in jumped Piglet into Kanga's pocket, and off scampered Rabbit, with Roo
in his paws, as fast as he could.

"Why, where's Rabbit?" said Kanga, turning round again. "Are you all
right, Roo, dear?"

Piglet made a squeaky Roo-noise from the bottom of Kanga's pocket.

"Rabbit had to go away," said Pooh. "I think he thought of something he
had to go and see about suddenly."

"And Piglet?"

"I think Piglet thought of something at the same time. Suddenly."

"Well, we must be getting home," said Kanga. "Good-bye, Pooh." And in
three large jumps she was gone.

Pooh looked after her as she went.

"I wish I could jump like that," he thought. "Some can and some can't.
That's how it is."

But there were moments when Piglet wished that Kanga couldn't. Often,
when he had had a long walk home through the Forest, he had wished that
he were a bird; but now he thought jerkily to himself at the bottom of
Kanga's pocket,

        this                              take
    "If      is          shall      really    to
                flying I      never              it."

And as he went up in the air he said, "_Ooooooo!_" and as he came down
he said, "_Ow!_" And he was saying, "_Ooooooo-ow, Ooooooo-ow,
Ooooooo-ow_" all the way to Kanga's house.

Of course as soon as Kanga unbuttoned her pocket, she saw what had
happened. Just for a moment, she thought she was frightened, and then
she knew she wasn't; for she felt quite sure that Christopher Robin
would never let any harm happen to Roo. So she said to herself, "If they
are having a joke with me, I will have a joke with them."

"Now then, Roo, dear," she said, as she took Piglet out of her pocket.
"Bed-time."

"_Aha!_" said Piglet, as well as he could after his Terrifying Journey.
But it wasn't a very good "_Aha!_" and Kanga didn't seem to understand
what it meant.

"Bath first," said Kanga in a cheerful voice.

"_Aha!_" said Piglet again, looking round anxiously for the others. But
the others weren't there. Rabbit was playing with Baby Roo in his own
house, and feeling more fond of him every minute, and Pooh, who had
decided to be a Kanga, was still at the sandy place on the top of the
Forest, practising jumps.

"I am not at all sure," said Kanga in a thoughtful voice, "that it
wouldn't be a good idea to have a _cold_ bath this evening. Would you
like that, Roo, dear?"

Piglet, who had never been really fond of baths, shuddered a long
indignant shudder, and said in as brave a voice as he could:

"Kanga, I see that the time has come to spleak painly."

"Funny little Roo," said Kanga, as she got the bath-water ready.

"I am _not_ Roo," said Piglet loudly. "I am Piglet!"

"Yes, dear, yes," said Kanga soothingly. "And imitating Piglet's voice
too! So clever of him," she went on, as she took a large bar of yellow
soap out of the cupboard. "What _will_ he be doing next?"

"Can't you _see_?" shouted Piglet. "Haven't you got _eyes_? _Look_ at
me!"

"I _am_ looking, Roo, dear," said Kanga rather severely. "And you know
what I told you yesterday about making faces. If you go on making faces
like Piglet's, you will grow up to _look_ like Piglet--and _then_ think
how sorry you will be. Now then, into the bath, and don't let me have to
speak to you about it again."

Before he knew where he was, Piglet was in the bath, and Kanga was
scrubbing him firmly with a large lathery flannel.

"Ow!" cried Piglet. "Let me out! I'm Piglet!"

"Don't open the mouth, dear, or the soap goes in," said Kanga. "There!
What did I tell you?"

"You--you--you did it on purpose," spluttered Piglet, as soon as he
could speak again ... and then accidentally had another mouthful of
lathery flannel.

"That's right, dear, don't say anything," said Kanga, and in another
minute Piglet was out of the bath, and being rubbed dry with a towel.

"Now," said Kanga, "there's your medicine, and then bed."

"W-w-what medicine?" said Piglet.

"To make you grow big and strong, dear. You don't want to grow up small
and weak like Piglet, do you? Well, then!"

At that moment there was a knock at the door.

"Come in," said Kanga, and in came Christopher Robin.

"Christopher Robin, Christopher Robin!" cried Piglet. "Tell Kanga who I
am! She keeps saying I'm Roo. I'm _not_ Roo, am I?"

Christopher Robin looked at him very carefully, and shook his head.

"You can't be Roo," he said, "because I've just seen Roo playing in
Rabbit's house."

"Well!" said Kanga. "Fancy that! Fancy my making a mistake like that."

"There you are!" said Piglet. "I told you so. I'm Piglet."

Christopher Robin shook his head again.

"Oh, you're not Piglet," he said. "I know Piglet well, and he's _quite_
a different colour."

Piglet began to say that this was because he had just had a bath, and
then he thought that perhaps he wouldn't say that, and as he opened his
mouth to say something else, Kanga slipped the medicine spoon in, and
then patted him on the back and told him that it was really quite a nice
taste when you got used to it.

"I knew it wasn't Piglet," said Kanga. "I wonder who it can be."

"Perhaps it's some relation of Pooh's," said Christopher Robin. "What
about a nephew or an uncle or something?"

Kanga agreed that this was probably what it was, and said that they
would have to call it by some name.

"I shall call it Pootel," said Christopher Robin. "Henry Pootel for
short."

And just when it was decided, Henry Pootel wriggled out of Kanga's arms
and jumped to the ground. To his great joy Christopher Robin had left
the door open. Never had Henry Pootel Piglet run so fast as he ran then,
and he didn't stop running until he had got quite close to his house.
But when he was a hundred yards away he stopped running, and rolled the
rest of the way home, so as to get his own nice comfortable colour
again....

So Kanga and Roo stayed in the Forest. And every Tuesday Roo spent the
day with his great friend Rabbit, and every Tuesday Kanga spent the day
with her great friend Pooh, teaching him to jump, and every Tuesday
Piglet spent the day with his great friend Christopher Robin. So they
were all happy again.




                              CHAPTER VIII

                    IN WHICH CHRISTOPHER ROBIN LEADS
                     AN EXPOTITION TO THE NORTH POLE


One fine day Pooh had stumped up to the top of the Forest to see if
his friend Christopher Robin was interested in Bears at all. At
breakfast that morning (a simple meal of marmalade spread lightly over a
honeycomb or two) he had suddenly thought of a new song. It began like
this:

    "_Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear._"

When he had got as far as this, he scratched his head, and thought to
himself "That's a very good start for a song, but what about the second
line?" He tried singing "Ho," two or three times, but it didn't seem to
help. "Perhaps it would be better," he thought, "if I sang Hi for the
life of a Bear." So he sang it ... but it wasn't. "Very well, then,"
he said, "I shall sing that first line twice, and perhaps if I sing it
very quickly, I shall find myself singing the third and fourth lines
before I have time to think of them, and that will be a Good Song. Now
then:"

          Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear!
          Sing Ho! for the life of a Bear!
    I don't much mind if it rains or snows,
    'Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice new nose,
    I don't much care if it snows or thaws,
    'Cos I've got a lot of honey on my nice clean paws!
          Sing Ho! for a Bear!
          Sing Ho! for a Pooh!
    And I'll have a little something in an hour or two!

He was so pleased with this song that he sang it all the way to the top
of the Forest, "and if I go on singing it much longer," he thought, "it
will be time for the little something, and then the last line won't be
true." So he turned it into a hum instead.

Christopher Robin was sitting outside his door, putting on his Big
Boots. As soon as he saw the Big Boots, Pooh knew that an Adventure was
going to happen, and he brushed the honey off his nose with the back of
his paw, and spruced himself up as well as he could, so as to look Ready
for Anything.

"Good-morning, Christopher Robin," he called out.

"Hallo, Pooh Bear. I can't get this boot on."

"That's bad," said Pooh.

"Do you think you could very kindly lean against me, 'cos I keep pulling
so hard that I fall over backwards."

Pooh sat down, dug his feet into the ground, and pushed hard against
Christopher Robin's back, and Christopher Robin pushed hard against his,
and pulled and pulled at his boot until he had got it on.

"And that's that," said Pooh. "What do we do next?"

"We are all going on an Expedition," said Christopher Robin, as he got
up and brushed himself. "Thank you, Pooh."

"Going on an Expotition?" said Pooh eagerly. "I don't think I've ever
been on one of those. Where are we going to on this Expotition?"

"Expedition, silly old Bear. It's got an 'x' in it."

"Oh!" said Pooh. "I know." But he didn't really.

"We're going to discover the North Pole."

"Oh!" said Pooh again. "What _is_ the North Pole?" he asked.

"It's just a thing you discover," said Christopher Robin carelessly, not
being quite sure himself.

"Oh! I see," said Pooh. "Are bears any good at discovering it?"

"Of course they are. And Rabbit and Kanga and all of you. It's an
Expedition. That's what an Expedition means. A long line of everybody.
You'd better tell the others to get ready, while I see if my gun's all
right. And we must all bring Provisions."

"Bring what?"

"Things to eat."

"Oh!" said Pooh happily. "I thought you said Provisions. I'll go and
tell them." And he stumped off.

The first person he met was Rabbit.

"Hallo, Rabbit," he said, "is that you?"

"Let's pretend it isn't," said Rabbit, "and see what happens."

"I've got a message for you."

"I'll give it to him."

"We're all going on an Expotition with Christopher Robin!"

"What is it when we're on it?"

"A sort of boat, I think," said Pooh.

"Oh! that sort."

"Yes. And we're going to discover a Pole or something. Or was it a Mole?
Anyhow we're going to discover it."

"We are, are we?" said Rabbit.

"Yes. And we've got to bring Pro--things to eat with us. In case we want
to eat them. Now I'm going down to Piglet's. Tell Kanga, will you?"

He left Rabbit and hurried down to Piglet's house. The Piglet was
sitting on the ground at the door of his house blowing happily at a
dandelion, and wondering whether it would be this year, next year,
sometime or never. He had just discovered that it would be never, and
was trying to remember what "_it_" was, and hoping it wasn't anything
nice, when Pooh came up.

"Oh! Piglet," said Pooh excitedly, "we're going on an Expotition, all of
us, with things to eat. To discover something."

"To discover what?" said Piglet anxiously.

"Oh! just something."

"Nothing fierce?"

"Christopher Robin didn't say anything about fierce. He just said it had
an 'x'."

"It isn't their necks I mind," said Piglet earnestly. "It's their teeth.
But if Christopher Robin is coming I don't mind anything."

In a little while they were all ready at the top of the Forest, and the
Expotition started. First came Christopher Robin and Rabbit, then Piglet
and Pooh; then Kanga, with Roo in her pocket, and Owl; then Eeyore; and,
at the end, in a long line, all Rabbit's friends-and-relations.

"I didn't ask them," explained Rabbit carelessly. "They just came. They
always do. They can march at the end, after Eeyore."

"What I say," said Eeyore, "is that it's unsettling. I didn't want to
come on this Expo--what Pooh said. I only came to oblige. But here I
am; and if I am the end of the Expo--what we're talking about--then
let me _be_ the end. But if, every time I want to sit down for a
little rest, I have to brush away half a dozen of Rabbit's smaller
friends-and-relations first, then this isn't an Expo--whatever it
is--at all, it's simply a Confused Noise. That's what _I_ say."

"I see what Eeyore means," said Owl. "If you ask me----"

"I'm not asking anybody," said Eeyore. "I'm just telling everybody. We
can look for the North Pole, or we can play 'Here we go gathering Nuts
and May' with the end part of an ant's nest. It's all the same to me."

There was a shout from the top of the line.

"Come on!" called Christopher Robin.

"Come on!" called Pooh and Piglet.

"Come on!" called Owl.

"We're starting," said Rabbit. "I must go." And he hurried off to the
front of the Expotition with Christopher Robin.

"All right," said Eeyore. "We're going. Only Don't Blame Me."

So off they all went to discover the Pole. And as they walked, they
chattered to each other of this and that, all except Pooh, who was
making up a song.

"This is the first verse," he said to Piglet, when he was ready with it.

"First verse of what?"

"My song."

"What song?"

"This one."

"Which one?"

"Well, if you listen, Piglet, you'll hear it."

"How do you know I'm not listening?"

Pooh couldn't answer that one, so he began to sing.

    They all went off to discover the Pole,
      Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all;
    It's a Thing you Discover, as I've been tole
      By Owl and Piglet and Rabbit and all.
    Eeyore, Christopher Robin and Pooh
    And Rabbit's relations all went too--
    And where the Pole was none of them knew....
      Sing Hey! for Owl and Rabbit and all!

"Hush!" said Christopher Robin turning round to Pooh, "we're just coming
to a Dangerous Place."

"Hush!" said Pooh turning round quickly to Piglet.

"Hush!" said Piglet to Kanga.

"Hush!" said Kanga to Owl, while Roo said "Hush!" several times to
himself very quietly.

"Hush!" said Owl to Eeyore.

"_Hush!_" said Eeyore in a terrible voice to all Rabbit's
friends-and-relations, and "Hush!" they said hastily to each other all
down the line, until it got to the last one of all. And the last and
smallest friend-and-relation was so upset to find that the whole
Expotition was saying "Hush!" to _him_, that he buried himself head
downwards in a crack in the ground, and stayed there for two days until
the danger was over, and then went home in a great hurry, and lived
quietly with his Aunt ever-afterwards. His name was Alexander Beetle.

They had come to a stream which twisted and tumbled between high rocky
banks, and Christopher Robin saw at once how dangerous it was.

"It's just the place," he explained, "for an Ambush."

"What sort of bush?" whispered Pooh to Piglet. "A gorse-bush?"

"My dear Pooh," said Owl in his superior way, "don't you know what an
Ambush is?"

"Owl," said Piglet, looking round at him severely, "Pooh's whisper was a
perfectly private whisper, and there was no need----"

"An Ambush," said Owl, "is a sort of Surprise."

"So is a gorse-bush sometimes," said Pooh.

"An Ambush, as I was about to explain to Pooh," said Piglet, "is a sort
of Surprise."

"If people jump out at you suddenly, that's an Ambush," said Owl.

"It's an Ambush, Pooh, when people jump at you suddenly," explained
Piglet.

Pooh, who now knew what an Ambush was, said that a gorse-bush had sprung
at him suddenly one day when he fell off a tree, and he had taken six
days to get all the prickles out of himself.

"We are not _talking_ about gorse-bushes," said Owl a little crossly.

"I am," said Pooh.

They were climbing very cautiously up the stream now, going from rock to
rock, and after they had gone a little way they came to a place where
the banks widened out at each side, so that on each side of the water
there was a level strip of grass on which they could sit down and rest.
As soon as he saw this, Christopher Robin called "Halt!" and they all
sat down and rested.

"I think," said Christopher Robin, "that we ought to eat all our
Provisions now, so that we shan't have so much to carry."

"Eat all our what?" said Pooh.

"All that we've brought," said Piglet, getting to work.

"That's a good idea," said Pooh, and he got to work too.

"Have you all got something?" asked Christopher Robin with his mouth
full.

"All except me," said Eeyore. "As Usual." He looked round at them in his
melancholy way. "I suppose none of you are sitting on a thistle by any
chance?"

"I believe I am," said Pooh. "Ow!" He got up, and looked behind him.
"Yes, I was. I thought so."

"Thank you, Pooh. If you've quite finished with it." He moved across to
Pooh's place, and began to eat.

"It don't do them any Good, you know, sitting on them," he went on, as
he looked up munching. "Takes all the Life out of them. Remember that
another time, all of you. A little Consideration, a little Thought for
Others, makes all the difference."

As soon as he had finished his lunch Christopher Robin whispered to
Rabbit, and Rabbit said "Yes, yes, of course," and they walked a little
way up the stream together.

"I didn't want the others to hear," said Christopher Robin.

"Quite so," said Rabbit, looking important.

"It's--I wondered--It's only--Rabbit, I suppose _you_ don't know, What
does the North Pole _look_ like?"

"Well," said Rabbit, stroking his whiskers. "Now you're asking me."

"I did know once, only I've sort of forgotten," said Christopher Robin
carelessly.

"It's a funny thing," said Rabbit, "but I've sort of forgotten too,
although I did know _once_."

"I suppose it's just a pole stuck in the ground?"

"Sure to be a pole," said Rabbit, "because of calling it a pole, and if
it's a pole, well, I should think it would be sticking in the ground,
shouldn't you, because there'd be nowhere else to stick it."

"Yes, that's what I thought."

"The only thing," said Rabbit, "is, _where is it sticking_?"

"That's what we're looking for," said Christopher Robin.

They went back to the others. Piglet was lying on his back, sleeping
peacefully. Roo was washing his face and paws in the stream, while Kanga
explained to everybody proudly that this was the first time he had ever
washed his face himself, and Owl was telling Kanga an Interesting
Anecdote full of long words like Encyclop√¶dia and Rhododendron to which
Kanga wasn't listening.

"I don't hold with all this washing," grumbled Eeyore. "This modern
Behind-the-ears nonsense. What do _you_ think, Pooh?"

"Well," said Pooh, "_I_ think----"

But we shall never know what Pooh thought, for there came a sudden
squeak from Roo, a splash, and a loud cry of alarm from Kanga.

"So much for _washing_," said Eeyore.

"Roo's fallen in!" cried Rabbit, and he and Christopher Robin came
rushing down to the rescue.

"Look at me swimming!" squeaked Roo from the middle of his pool, and was
hurried down a waterfall into the next pool.

"Are you all right, Roo dear?" called Kanga anxiously.

"Yes!" said Roo. "Look at me sw----" and down he went over the next
waterfall into another pool.

Everybody was doing something to help. Piglet, wide awake suddenly, was
jumping up and down and making "Oo, I say" noises; Owl was explaining
that in a case of Sudden and Temporary Immersion the Important Thing was
to keep the Head Above Water; Kanga was jumping along the bank, saying
"Are you _sure_ you're all right, Roo dear?" to which Roo, from whatever
pool he was in at the moment, was answering "Look at me swimming!"
Eeyore had turned round and hung his tail over the first pool into which
Roo fell, and with his back to the accident was grumbling quietly to
himself, and saying, "All this washing; but catch on to my tail, little
Roo, and you'll be all right"; and, Christopher Robin and Rabbit came
hurrying past Eeyore, and were calling out to the others in front of
them.

"All right, Roo, I'm coming," called Christopher Robin.

"Get something across the stream lower down, some of you fellows,"
called Rabbit.

But Pooh was getting something. Two pools below Roo he was standing with
a long pole in his paws, and Kanga came up and took one end of it, and
between them they held it across the lower part of the pool; and Roo,
still bubbling proudly, "Look at me swimming," drifted up against it,
and climbed out.

"Did you see me swimming?" squeaked Roo excitedly, while Kanga scolded
him and rubbed him down. "Pooh, did you see me swimming? That's called
swimming, what I was doing. Rabbit, did you see what I was doing?
Swimming. Hallo, Piglet! I say, Piglet! What do you think I was doing!
Swimming! Christopher Robin, did you see me----"

But Christopher Robin wasn't listening. He was looking at Pooh.

"Pooh," he said, "where did you find that pole?"

Pooh looked at the pole in his hands.

"I just found it," he said. "I thought it ought to be useful. I just
picked it up."

"Pooh," said Christopher Robin solemnly, "the Expedition is over. You
have found the North Pole!"

"Oh!" said Pooh.

Eeyore was sitting with his tail in the water when they all got back to
him.

"Tell Roo to be quick, somebody," he said. "My tail's getting cold. I
don't want to mention it, but I just mention it. I don't want to
complain but there it is. My tail's cold."

"Here I am!" squeaked Roo.

"Oh, there you are."

"Did you see me swimming?"

Eeyore took his tail out of the water, and swished it from side to side.

"As I expected," he said. "Lost all feeling. Numbed it. That's what it's
done. Numbed it. Well, as long as nobody minds, I suppose it's all
right."

"Poor old Eeyore. I'll dry it for you," said Christopher Robin, and he
took out his handkerchief and rubbed it up.

"Thank you, Christopher Robin. You're the only one who seems to
understand about tails. They don't think--that's what the matter with
some of these others. They've no imagination. A tail isn't a tail to
_them_, it's just a Little Bit Extra at the back."

"Never mind, Eeyore," said Christopher Robin, rubbing his hardest. "Is
_that_ better?"

"It's feeling more like a tail perhaps. It Belongs again, if you know
what I mean."

"Hullo, Eeyore," said Pooh, coming up to them with his pole.

"Hullo, Pooh. Thank you for asking, but I shall be able to use it again
in a day or two."

"Use what?" said Pooh.

"What we are talking about."

"I wasn't talking about anything," said Pooh, looking puzzled.

"My mistake again. I thought you were saying how sorry you were about my
tail, being all numb, and could you do anything to help?"

"No," said Pooh. "That wasn't me," he said. He thought for a little and
then suggested helpfully, "Perhaps it was somebody else."

"Well, thank him for me when you see him."

Pooh looked anxiously at Christopher Robin.

"Pooh's found the North Pole," said Christopher Robin. "Isn't that
lovely?"

Pooh looked modestly down.

"Is that it?" said Eeyore.

"Yes," said Christopher Robin.

"Is that what we were looking for?"

"Yes," said Pooh.

"Oh!" said Eeyore. "Well, anyhow--it didn't rain," he said.

They stuck the pole in the ground, and Christopher Robin tied a message
on to it.

                               NORTH POLE

                           DISCOVERED BY POOH

                             POOH FOUND IT.

Then they all went home again. And I think, but I am not quite sure,
that Roo had a hot bath and went straight to bed. But Pooh went back to
his own house, and feeling very proud of what he had done, had a little
something to revive himself.




                               CHAPTER IX

                       IN WHICH PIGLET IS ENTIRELY
                           SURROUNDED BY WATER


It rained and it rained and it rained. Piglet told himself that never
in all his life, and _he_ was goodness knows _how_ old--three, was it,
or four?--never had he seen so much rain. Days and days and days.

"If only," he thought, as he looked out of the window, "I had been in
Pooh's house, or Christopher Robin's house, or Rabbit's house when it
began to rain, then I should have had Company all this time, instead of
being here all alone, with nothing to do except wonder when it will
stop." And he imagined himself with Pooh, saying, "Did you ever see such
rain, Pooh?" and Pooh saying, "Isn't it _awful_, Piglet?" and Piglet
saying, "I wonder how it is over Christopher Robin's way" and Pooh
saying, "I should think poor old Rabbit is about flooded out by this
time." It would have been jolly to talk like this, and really, it wasn't
much good having anything exciting like floods, if you couldn't share
them with somebody.

For it was rather exciting. The little dry ditches in which Piglet had
nosed about so often had become streams, the little streams across which
he had splashed were rivers, and the river, between whose steep banks
they had played so happily, had sprawled out of its own bed and was
taking up so much room everywhere, that Piglet was beginning to wonder
whether it would be coming into _his_ bed soon.

"It's a little Anxious," he said to himself, "to be a Very Small Animal
Entirely Surrounded by Water. Christopher Robin and Pooh could escape by
Climbing Trees, and Kanga could escape by Jumping, and Rabbit could
escape by Burrowing, and Owl could escape by Flying, and Eeyore could
escape by--by Making a Loud Noise Until Rescued, and here am I,
surrounded by water and I can't do _anything_."

It went on raining, and every day the water got a little higher, until
now it was nearly up to Piglet's window ... and still he hadn't done
anything.

"There's Pooh," he thought to himself. "Pooh hasn't much Brain, but he
never comes to any harm. He does silly things and they turn out right.
There's Owl. Owl hasn't exactly got Brain, but he Knows Things. He would
know the Right Thing to Do when Surrounded by Water. There's Rabbit. He
hasn't Learnt in Books, but he can always Think of a Clever Plan.
There's Kanga. She isn't Clever, Kanga isn't, but she would be so
anxious about Roo that she would do a Good Thing to Do without thinking
about It. And then there's Eeyore. And Eeyore is so miserable anyhow
that he wouldn't mind about this. But I wonder what Christopher Robin
would do?"

Then suddenly he remembered a story which Christopher Robin had told him
about a man on a desert island who had written something in a bottle and
thrown it in the sea; and Piglet thought that if he wrote something in a
bottle and threw it in the water, perhaps somebody would come and rescue
_him_!

He left the window and began to search his house, all of it that wasn't
under water, and at last he found a pencil and a small piece of dry
paper, and a bottle with a cork to it. And he wrote on one side of the
paper:

                                 HELP!
                              PIGLET (ME)

and on the other side:

                       IT'S ME PIGLET, HELP HELP.

Then he put the paper in the bottle, and he corked the bottle up as
tightly as he could, and he leant out of his window as far as he could
lean without falling in, and he threw the bottle as far as he could
throw--_splash!_--and in a little while it bobbed up again on the water;
and he watched it floating slowly away in the distance, until his eyes
ached with looking, and sometimes he thought it was the bottle, and
sometimes he thought it was just a ripple on the water which he was
following, and then suddenly he knew that he would never see it again
and that he had done all that he could do to save himself.

"So now," he thought, "somebody else will have to do something, and I
hope they will do it soon, because if they don't I shall have to swim,
which I can't, so I hope they do it soon." And then he gave a very long
sigh and said, "I wish Pooh were here. It's so much more friendly with
two."

                 *        *        *        *        *

When the rain began Pooh was asleep. It rained, and it rained, and it
rained, and he slept and he slept and he slept. He had had a tiring day.
You remember how he discovered the North Pole; well, he was so proud of
this that he asked Christopher Robin if there were any other Poles such
as a Bear of Little Brain might discover.

"There's a South Pole," said Christopher Robin, "and I expect there's an
East Pole and a West Pole, though people don't like talking about them."

Pooh was very excited when he heard this, and suggested that they should
have an Expotition to discover the East Pole, but Christopher Robin had
thought of something else to do with Kanga; so Pooh went out to discover
the East Pole by himself. Whether he discovered it or not, I forget; but
he was so tired when he got home that, in the very middle of his supper,
after he had been eating for little more than half-an-hour, he fell fast
asleep in his chair, and slept and slept and slept.

Then suddenly he was dreaming. He was at the East Pole, and it was a
very cold pole with the coldest sort of snow and ice all over it. He had
found a bee-hive to sleep in, but there wasn't room for his legs, so he
had left them outside. And Wild Woozles, such as inhabit the East Pole,
came and nibbled all the fur off his legs to make nests for their Young.
And the more they nibbled, the colder his legs got, until suddenly he
woke up with an _Ow!_--and there he was, sitting in his chair with his
feet in the water, and water all round him!

He splashed to his door and looked out....

"This is Serious," said Pooh. "I must have an Escape."

So he took his largest pot of honey and escaped with it to a broad
branch of his tree, well above the water, and then he climbed down again
and escaped with another pot ... and when the whole Escape was
finished, there was Pooh sitting on his branch, dangling his legs, and
there, beside him, were ten pots of honey....

Two days later, there was Pooh, sitting on his branch, dangling his
legs, and there, beside him, were four pots of honey....

Three days later, there was Pooh, sitting on his branch, dangling his
legs, and there beside him, was one pot of honey.

Four days later, there was Pooh ...

And it was on the morning of the fourth day that Piglet's bottle came
floating past him, and with one loud cry of "Honey!" Pooh plunged into
the water, seized the bottle, and struggled back to his tree again.

"Bother!" said Pooh, as he opened it. "All that wet for nothing. What's
that bit of paper doing?"

He took it out and looked at it.

"It's a Missage," he said to himself, "that's what it is. And that
letter is a 'P,' and so is that, and so is that, and 'P' means 'Pooh,'
so it's a very important Missage to me, and I can't read it. I must find
Christopher Robin or Owl or Piglet, one of those Clever Readers who can
read things, and they will tell me what this missage means. Only I can't
swim. Bother!"

Then he had an idea, and I think that for a Bear of Very Little Brain,
it was a good idea. He said to himself:

"If a bottle can float, then a jar can float, and if a jar floats, I can
sit on the top of it, if it's a very big jar."

So he took his biggest jar, and corked it up. "All boats have to have a
name," he said, "so I shall call mine _The Floating Bear_." And with
these words he dropped his boat into the water and jumped in after it.

For a little while Pooh and _The Floating Bear_ were uncertain as to
which of them was meant to be on the top, but after trying one or two
different positions, they settled down with _The Floating Bear_
underneath and Pooh triumphantly astride it, paddling vigorously with
his feet.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Christopher Robin lived at the very top of the Forest. It rained, and it
rained, and it rained, but the water couldn't come up to _his_ house. It
was rather jolly to look down into the valleys and see the water all
round him, but it rained so hard that he stayed indoors most of the
time, and thought about things. Every morning he went out with his
umbrella and put a stick in the place where the water came up to, and
every next morning he went out and couldn't see his stick any more, so
he put another stick in the place where the water came up to, and then
he walked home again, and each morning he had a shorter way to walk than
he had had the morning before. On the morning of the fifth day he saw
the water all round him, and knew that for the first time in his life he
was on a real island. Which was very exciting.

It was on this morning that Owl came flying over the water to say "How
do you do," to his friend Christopher Robin.

"I say, Owl," said Christopher Robin, "isn't this fun? I'm on an
island!"

"The atmospheric conditions have been very unfavourable lately," said
Owl.

"The what?"

"It has been raining," explained Owl.

"Yes," said Christopher Robin. "It has."

"The flood-level has reached an unprecedented height."

"The who?"

"There's a lot of water about," explained Owl.

"Yes," said Christopher Robin, "there is."

"However, the prospects are rapidly becoming more favourable. At any
moment----"

"Have you seen Pooh?"

"No. At any moment----"

"I hope he's all right," said Christopher Robin. "I've been wondering
about him. I expect Piglet's with him. Do you think they're all right,
Owl?"

"I expect so. You see, at any moment----"

"Do go and see, Owl. Because Pooh hasn't got very much brain, and he
might do something silly, and I do love him so, Owl. Do you see, Owl?"

"That's all right," said Owl. "I'll go. Back directly." And he flew off.

In a little while he was back again.

"Pooh isn't there," he said.

"Not there?"

"Has _been_ there. He's been sitting on a branch of his tree outside his
house with nine pots of honey. But he isn't there now."

"Oh, Pooh!" cried Christopher Robin. "Where _are_ you?"

"Here I am," said a growly voice behind him.

"Pooh!"

They rushed into each other's arms.

"How did you get here, Pooh?" asked Christopher Robin, when he was ready
to talk again.

"On my boat," said Pooh proudly. "I had a Very Important Missage sent me
in a bottle, and owing to having got some water in my eyes, I couldn't
read it, so I brought it to you. On my boat."

With these proud words he gave Christopher Robin the missage.

"But it's from Piglet!" cried Christopher Robin when he had read it.

"Isn't there anything about Pooh in it?" asked Bear, looking over his
shoulder.

Christopher Robin read the message aloud.

"Oh, are those 'P's' piglets? I thought they were poohs."

"We must rescue him at once! I thought he was with _you_, Pooh. Owl,
could you rescue him on your back?"

"I don't think so," said Owl, after grave thought. "It is doubtful if
the necessary dorsal muscles----"

"Then would you fly to him at _once_ and say that Rescue is Coming? And
Pooh and I will think of a Rescue and come as quick as ever we can. Oh,
don't _talk_, Owl, go on quick!" And, still thinking of something to
say, Owl flew off.

"Now then, Pooh," said Christopher Robin, "where's your boat?"

"I ought to say," explained Pooh as they walked down to the shore of the
island, "that it isn't just an ordinary sort of boat. Sometimes it's a
Boat, and sometimes it's more of an Accident. It all depends."

"Depends on what?"

"On whether I'm on the top of it or underneath it."

"Oh! Well, where is it?"

"There!" said Pooh, pointing proudly to _The Floating Bear_.

It wasn't what Christopher Robin expected, and the more he looked at it,
the more he thought what a Brave and Clever Bear Pooh was, and the more
Christopher Robin thought this, the more Pooh looked modestly down his
nose and tried to pretend he wasn't.

"But it's too small for two of us," said Christopher Robin sadly.

"Three of us with Piglet."

"That makes it smaller still. Oh, Pooh Bear, what shall we do?"

And then this Bear, Pooh Bear, Winnie-the-Pooh, F.O.P. (Friend of
Piglet's), R.C. (Rabbit's Companion), P.D. (Pole Discoverer), E.C. and
T.F. (Eeyore's Comforter and Tail-finder)--in fact, Pooh himself--said
something so clever that Christopher Robin could only look at him with
mouth open and eyes staring, wondering if this was really the Bear of
Very Little Brain whom he had known and loved so long.

"We might go in your umbrella," said Pooh.

"?"

"We might go in your umbrella," said Pooh.

"? ?"

"We might go in your umbrella," said Pooh.

"!!!!!!"

For suddenly Christopher Robin saw that they might. He opened his
umbrella and put it point downwards in the water. It floated but
wobbled. Pooh got in. He was just beginning to say that it was all right
now, when he found that it wasn't, so after a short drink which he
didn't really want he waded back to Christopher Robin. Then they both
got in together, and it wobbled no longer.

"I shall call this boat _The Brain of Pooh_," said Christopher Robin,
and _The Brain of Pooh_ set sail forthwith in a south-westerly
direction, revolving gracefully.

You can imagine Piglet's joy when at last the ship came in sight of him.
In after-years he liked to think that he had been in Very Great Danger
during the Terrible Flood, but the only danger he had really been in was
in the last half-hour of his imprisonment, when Owl, who had just flown
up, sat on a branch of his tree to comfort him, and told him a very long
story about an aunt who had once laid a seagull's egg by mistake, and
the story went on and on, rather like this sentence, until Piglet who
was listening out of his window without much hope, went to sleep quietly
and naturally, slipping slowly out of the window towards the water until
he was only hanging on by his toes, at which moment luckily, a sudden
loud squawk from Owl, which was really part of the story, being what his
aunt said, woke the Piglet up and just gave him time to jerk himself
back into safety and say, "How interesting, and did she?" when--well,
you can imagine his joy when at last he saw the good ship, _Brain of
Pooh_ (_Captain_, C. Robin; _1st Mate_, P. Bear) coming over the sea to
rescue him. Christopher Robin and Pooh again....

And that is really the end of the story, and I am very tired after that
last sentence, I think I shall stop there.




                               CHAPTER X

                    IN WHICH CHRISTOPHER ROBIN GIVES
                    POOH A PARTY, AND WE SAY GOOD-BYE


One day when the sun had come back over the Forest, bringing with it
the scent of may, and all the streams of the Forest were tinkling
happily to find themselves their own pretty shape again, and the little
pools lay dreaming of the life they had seen and the big things they had
done, and in the warmth and quiet of the Forest the cuckoo was trying
over his voice carefully and listening to see if he liked it, and
wood-pigeons were complaining gently to themselves in their lazy
comfortable way that it was the other fellow's fault, but it didn't
matter very much; on such a day as this Christopher Robin whistled in a
special way he had, and Owl came flying out of the Hundred Acre Wood to
see what was wanted.

"Owl," said Christopher Robin, "I am going to give a party."

"You are, are you?" said Owl.

"And it's to be a special sort of party, because it's because of what
Pooh did when he did what he did to save Piglet from the flood."

"Oh, that's what it's for, is it?" said Owl.

"Yes, so will you tell Pooh as quickly as you can, and all the others,
because it will be to-morrow."

"Oh, it will, will it?" said Owl, still being as helpful as possible.

"So will you go and tell them, Owl?"

Owl tried to think of something very wise to say, but couldn't, so he
flew off to tell the others. And the first person he told was Pooh.

"Pooh," he said, "Christopher Robin is giving a party."

"Oh!" said Pooh. And then seeing that Owl expected him to say something
else, he said "Will there be those little cake things with pink sugar
icing?"

Owl felt that it was rather beneath him to talk about little cake things
with pink sugar icing, so he told Pooh exactly what Christopher Robin
had said, and flew off to Eeyore.

"A party for Me?" thought Pooh to himself. "How grand!" And he began to
wonder if all the other animals would know that it was a special Pooh
Party, and if Christopher Robin had told them about _The Floating Bear_
and the _Brain of Pooh_ and all the wonderful ships he had invented and
sailed on, and he began to think how awful it would be if everybody had
forgotten about it, and nobody quite knew what the party was for; and
the more he thought like this, the more the party got muddled in his
mind, like a dream when nothing goes right. And the dream began to sing
itself over in his head until it became a sort of song. It was an

                           ANXIOUS POOH SONG.

    3 Cheers for Pooh!
    (_For Who?_)
    For Pooh--
    (_Why what did he do?_)
    I thought you knew;
    He saved his friend from a wetting!
    3 Cheers for Bear!
    (_For where?_)
    For Bear--
    He couldn't swim,
    But he rescued him!
    (_He rescued who?_)
    Oh, listen, do!
    I am talking of Pooh--
    (_Of who?_)
    Of Pooh!
    (_I'm sorry I keep forgetting_).
    Well, Pooh was a Bear of Enormous Brain
    (_Just say it again!_)
    Of enormous brain--
    (_Of enormous what?_)
    Well, he ate a lot,
    And I don't know if he could swim or not,
    But he managed to float
    On a sort of boat
    (_On a sort of what?_)
    Well, a sort of pot--
    So now let's give him three hearty cheers
    (_So now let's give him three hearty whiches?_)
    And hope he'll be with us for years and years,
    And grow in health and wisdom and riches!
    3 Cheers for Pooh!
    (_For who?_)
    For Pooh--
    3 Cheers for Bear!
    (_For where?_)
    For Bear--
    3 Cheers for the wonderful Winnie-the-Pooh!
    (_Just tell me, somebody_--WHAT DID HE DO?)

While this was going on inside him, Owl was talking to Eeyore.

"Eeyore," said Owl, "Christopher Robin is giving a party."

"Very interesting," said Eeyore. "I suppose they will be sending me down
the odd bits which got trodden on. Kind and Thoughtful. Not at all,
don't mention it."

"There is an Invitation for you."

"What's that like?"

"An Invitation!"

"Yes, I heard you. Who dropped it?"

"This isn't anything to eat, it's asking you to the party. To-morrow."

Eeyore shook his head slowly.

"You mean Piglet. The little fellow with the excited ears. That's
Piglet. I'll tell him."

"No, no!" said Owl, getting quite fussy. "It's you!"

"Are you sure?"

"Of course I'm sure. Christopher Robin said 'All of them! Tell all of
them.'"

"All of them, except Eeyore?"

"All of them," said Owl sulkily.

"Ah!" said Eeyore. "A mistake, no doubt, but still, I shall come. Only
don't blame _me_ if it rains."

But it didn't rain. Christopher Robin had made a long table out of some
long pieces of wood, and they all sat round it. Christopher Robin sat at
one end, and Pooh sat at the other, and between them on one side were
Owl and Eeyore and Piglet, and between them on the other side were
Rabbit, and Roo and Kanga. And all Rabbit's friends and relations spread
themselves about on the grass, and waited hopefully in case anybody
spoke to them, or dropped anything, or asked them the time.

It was the first party to which Roo had ever been, and he was very
excited. As soon as ever they had sat down he began to talk.

"Hallo, Pooh!" he squeaked.

"Hallo, Roo!" said Pooh.

Roo jumped up and down in his seat for a little while and then began
again.

"Hallo, Piglet!" he squeaked.

Piglet waved a paw at him, being too busy to say anything.

"Hallo, Eeyore!" said Roo.

Eeyore nodded gloomily at him. "It will rain soon, you see if it
doesn't," he said.

Roo looked to see if it didn't, and it didn't, so he said "Hallo,
Owl!"--and Owl said "Hallo, my little fellow," in a kindly way, and went
on telling Christopher Robin about an accident which had nearly happened
to a friend of his whom Christopher Robin didn't know, and Kanga said to
Roo, "Drink up your milk first, dear, and talk afterwards." So Roo, who
was drinking his milk, tried to say that he could do both at once ...
and had to be patted on the back and dried for quite a long time
afterwards.

When they had all nearly eaten enough, Christopher Robin banged on the
table with his spoon, and everybody stopped talking and was very silent,
except Roo who was just finishing a loud attack of hiccups and trying to
look as if it was one of Rabbit's relations.

"This party," said Christopher Robin, "is a party because of what
someone did, and we all know who it was, and it's his party, because of
what he did, and I've got a present for him and here it is." Then he
felt about a little and whispered, "Where is it?"

While he was looking, Eeyore coughed in an impressive way and began to
speak.

"Friends," he said, "including oddments, it is a great pleasure, or
perhaps I had better say it has been a pleasure so far, to see you at my
party. What I did was nothing. Any of you--except Rabbit and Owl and
Kanga--would have done the same. Oh, and Pooh. My remarks do not, of
course, apply to Piglet and Roo, because they are too small. Any of you
would have done the same. But it just happened to be Me. It was not, I
need hardly say, with an idea of getting what Christopher Robin is
looking for now"--and he put his front leg to his mouth and said in a
loud whisper, "Try under the table"--"that I did what I did--but because
I feel that we should all do what we can to help. I feel that we should
all----"

"H--hup!" said Roo accidentally.

"Roo, dear!" said Kanga reproachfully.

"Was it me?" asked Roo, a little surprised.

"What's Eeyore talking about?" Piglet whispered to Pooh.

"I don't know," said Pooh rather dolefully.

"I thought this was _your_ party."

"I thought it was _once_. But I suppose it isn't."

"I'd sooner it was yours than Eeyore's," said Piglet.

"So would I," said Pooh.

"H--hup!" said Roo again.

"AS--I--WAS--SAYING," said Eeyore loudly and sternly, "as I was saying
when I was interrupted by various Loud Sounds, I feel that----"

"Here it is!" cried Christopher Robin excitedly. "Pass it down to silly
old Pooh. It's for Pooh."

"For Pooh?" said Eeyore.

"Of course it is. The best bear in all the world."

"I might have known," said Eeyore. "After all, one can't complain. I
have my friends. Somebody spoke to me only yesterday. And was it last
week or the week before that Rabbit bumped into me and said 'Bother!'
The Social Round. Always something going on."

Nobody was listening, for they were all saying "Open it, Pooh," "What is
it, Pooh?" "I know what it is," "No, you don't" and other helpful
remarks of this sort. And of course Pooh was opening it as quickly as
ever he could, but without cutting the string, because you never know
when a bit of string might be Useful. At last it was undone.

When Pooh saw what it was, he nearly fell down, he was so pleased. It
was a Special Pencil Case. There were pencils in it marked "B" for Bear,
and pencils marked "HB" for Helping Bear, and pencils marked "BB" for
Brave Bear. There was a knife for sharpening the pencils, and
india-rubber for rubbing out anything which you had spelt wrong, and a
ruler for ruling lines for the words to walk on, and inches marked on
the ruler in case you wanted to know how many inches anything was, and
Blue Pencils and Red Pencils and Green Pencils for saying special things
in blue and red and green. And all these lovely things were in little
pockets of their own in a Special Case which shut with a click when you
clicked it. And they were all for Pooh.

"Oh!" said Pooh.

"Oh, Pooh!" said everybody else except Eeyore.

"Thank-you," growled Pooh.

But Eeyore was saying to himself, "This writing business. Pencils and
what-not. Over-rated, if you ask me. Silly stuff. Nothing in it."

Later on, when they had all said "Good-bye" and "Thank-you" to
Christopher Robin, Pooh and Piglet walked home thoughtfully together in
the golden evening, and for a long time they were silent.

"When you wake up in the morning, Pooh," said Piglet at last, "what's
the first thing you say to yourself?"

"What's for breakfast?" said Pooh. "What do _you_ say, Piglet?"

"I say, I wonder what's going to happen exciting _to-day_?" said Piglet.

Pooh nodded thoughtfully.

"It's the same thing," he said.

                 *        *        *        *        *

"And what did happen?" asked Christopher Robin.

"When?"

"Next morning."

"I don't know."

"Could you think and tell me and Pooh some time?"

"If you wanted it very much."

"Pooh does," said Christopher Robin.

He gave a deep sigh, picked his bear up by the leg and walked off to the
door, trailing Winnie-the-Pooh behind him. At the door he turned and
said "Coming to see me have my bath?"

"I might," I said.

"Was Pooh's pencil case any better than mine?"

"It was just the same," I said.

He nodded and went out ... and in a moment I heard
Winnie-the-Pooh--_bump, bump, bump_--going up the stairs behind him.

An introduction is to introduce people, but Christopher Robin and his
friends, who have already been introduced to you, are now going to
say Good-bye. So this is the opposite. When we asked Pooh what the
opposite of an Introduction was, he said "The what of a what?" which
didn't help us as much as we had hoped, but luckily Owl kept his head
and told us that the opposite of an Introduction, my dear Pooh, was a
Contradiction; and, as he is very good at long words, I am sure that
that's what it is.

Why we are having a Contradiction is because last week when Christopher
Robin said to me, "What about that story you were going to tell me
about what happened to Pooh when----" I happened to say very quickly,
"What about nine times a hundred and seven?" And when we had done that
one, we had one about cows going through a gate at two a minute, and
there are three hundred in the field, so how many are left after an
hour and a half? We find these very exciting, and when we have been
excited quite enough, we curl up and go to sleep ... and Pooh, sitting
wakeful a little longer on his chair by our pillow, thinks Grand
Thoughts to himself about Nothing, until he, too, closes his eyes and
nods his head, and follows us on tip-toe into the Forest. There, still,
we have magic adventures, more wonderful than any I have told you
about; but now, when we wake up in the morning, they are gone before we
can catch hold of them. How did the last one begin? "One day when Pooh
was walking in the Forest, there were one hundred and seven cows on a
gate...." No, you see, we have lost it. It was the best, I think. Well,
here are some of the other ones, all that we shall remember now. But,
of course, it isn't really Good-bye, because the Forest will always be
there ... and anybody who is Friendly with Bears can find it.

CHAPTER I

         IN WHICH _A House Is Built at Pooh Corner for Eeyore_


One day when Pooh Bear had nothing else to do, he thought he would do
something, so he went round to Piglet's house to see what Piglet was
doing. It was still snowing as he stumped over the white forest track,
and he expected to find Piglet warming his toes in front of his fire,
but to his surprise he saw that the door was open, and the more he
looked inside the more Piglet wasn't there.

"He's out," said Pooh sadly. "That's what it is. He's not in. I shall
have to go a fast Thinking Walk by myself. Bother!"

But first he thought that he would knock very loudly just to make
_quite_ sure ... and while he waited for Piglet not to answer, he
jumped up and down to keep warm, and a hum came suddenly into his head,
which seemed to him a Good Hum, such as is Hummed Hopefully to Others.

    The more it snows
              (Tiddely pom),
    The more it goes
              (Tiddely pom),
    The more it goes
              (Tiddely pom),
          On snowing.
    And nobody knows
              (Tiddely pom),
    How cold my toes
              (Tiddely pom),
    How cold my toes
              (Tiddely pom),
          Are growing.

"So what I'll do," said Pooh, "is I'll do this. I'll just go home first
and see what the time is, and perhaps I'll put a muffler round my neck,
and then I'll go and see Eeyore and sing it to him."

He hurried back to his own house; and his mind was so busy on the
way with the hum that he was getting ready for Eeyore that, when he
suddenly saw Piglet sitting in his best arm-chair, he could only stand
there rubbing his head and wondering whose house he was in.

"Hallo, Piglet," he said. "I thought you were out."

"No," said Piglet, "it's you who were out, Pooh."

"So it was," said Pooh. "I knew one of us was."

He looked up at his clock, which had stopped at five minutes to eleven
some weeks ago.

"Nearly eleven o'clock," said Pooh happily. "You're just in time for a
little smackerel of something," and he put his head into the cupboard.
"And then we'll go out, Piglet, and sing my song to Eeyore."

"Which song, Pooh?"

"The one we're going to sing to Eeyore," explained Pooh.

The clock was still saying five minutes to eleven when Pooh and Piglet
set out on their way half an hour later. The wind had dropped, and the
snow, tired of rushing round in circles trying to catch itself up,
now fluttered gently down until it found a place on which to rest, and
sometimes the place was Pooh's nose and sometimes it wasn't, and in
a little while Piglet was wearing a white muffler round his neck and
feeling more snowy behind the ears than he had ever felt before.

"Pooh," he said at last, and a little timidly, because he didn't want
Pooh to think he was Giving In, "I was just wondering. How would it
be if we went home now and _practised_ your song, and then sang it to
Eeyore tomorrow--or--or the next day, when we happen to see him?"

"That's a very good idea, Piglet," said Pooh. "We'll practise it now as
we go along. But it's no good going home to practise it, because it's
a special Outdoor Song which Has To Be Sung In The Snow."

"Are you sure?" asked Piglet anxiously.

"Well, you'll see, Piglet, when you listen. Because this is how it
begins. _The more it snows, tiddely pom_----"

"Tiddely what?" said Piglet.

"Pom," said Pooh. "I put that in to make it more hummy. _The more it
goes, tiddely pom, the more_----"

"Didn't you say snows?"

"Yes, but that was _before_."

"Before the tiddely pom?"

"It was a _different_ tiddely pom," said Pooh, feeling rather muddled
now. "I'll sing it to you properly and then you'll see."

So he sang it again.

    The more it
    SNOWS-tiddely-pom,
    The more it
    GOES-tiddely-pom
    The more it
    GOES-tiddely-pom
    On
    Snowing.

    And nobody
    KNOWS-tiddely-pom,
    How cold my
    TOES-tiddely-pom
    How cold my
    TOES-tiddely-pom
    Are
    Growing.

He sang it like that, which is much the best way of singing it, and
when he had finished, he waited for Piglet to say that, of all the
Outdoor Hums for Snowy Weather he had ever heard, this was the best.
And, after thinking the matter out carefully, Piglet said:

"Pooh," he said solemnly, "it isn't the _toes_ so much as the _ears_."

By this time they were getting near Eeyore's Gloomy Place, which was
where he lived, and as it was still very snowy behind Piglet's ears,
and he was getting tired of it, they turned into a little pine wood,
and sat down on the gate which led into it. They were out of the snow
now, but it was very cold, and to keep themselves warm they sang Pooh's
song right through six times, Piglet doing the tiddely-poms and Pooh
doing the rest of it, and both of them thumping on the top of the gate
with pieces of stick at the proper places. And in a little while they
felt much warmer, and were able to talk again.

"I've been thinking," said Pooh, "and what I've been thinking is this.
I've been thinking about Eeyore."

"What about Eeyore?"

"Well, poor Eeyore has nowhere to live."

"Nor he has," said Piglet.

"_You_ have a house, Piglet, and I have a house, and they are very good
houses. And Christopher Robin has a house, and Owl and Kanga and Rabbit
have houses, and even Rabbit's friends and relations have houses or
somethings, but poor Eeyore has nothing. So what I've been thinking is:
Let's build him a house."

"That," said Piglet, "is a Grand Idea. Where shall we build it?"

"We build it here," said Pooh, "just by this wood, out of the wind,
because this is where I thought of it. And we will call this Pooh
Corner. And we will build an Eeyore House with sticks at Pooh Corner
for Eeyore."

"There was a heap of sticks on the other side of the wood," said
Piglet. "I saw them. Lots and lots. All piled up."

"Thank you, Piglet," said Pooh. "What you have just said will be
a Great Help to us, and because of it I could call this place
Poohanpiglet Corner if Pooh Corner didn't sound better, which it does,
being smaller and more like a corner. Come along."

So they got down off the gate and went round to the other side of the
wood to fetch the sticks.

       *       *       *       *       *

Christopher Robin had spent the morning indoors going to Africa and
back, and he had just got off the boat and was wondering what it was
like outside, when who should come knocking at the door but Eeyore.

"Hallo, Eeyore," said Christopher Robin, as he opened the door and came
out. "How are _you_?"

"It's snowing still," said Eeyore gloomily.

"So it is."

"_And_ freezing."

"Is it?"

"Yes," said Eeyore. "However," he said, brightening up a little, "we
haven't had an earthquake lately."

"What's the matter, Eeyore?"

"Nothing, Christopher Robin. Nothing important. I suppose you haven't
seen a house or what-not anywhere about?"

"What sort of a house?"

"Just a house."

"Who lives there?"

"I do. At least I thought I did. But I suppose I don't. After all, we
can't all have houses."

"But, Eeyore, I didn't know--I always thought----"

"I don't know how it is, Christopher Robin, but what with all
this snow and one thing and another, not to mention icicles
and such-like, it isn't so Hot in my field about three o'clock
in the morning as some people think it is. It isn't Close, if
you know what I mean--not so as to be uncomfortable. It isn't
Stuffy. In fact, Christopher Robin," he went on in a loud whisper,
"quite-between-ourselves-and-don't-tell-anybody, it's Cold."

"Oh, Eeyore!"

"And I said to myself: The others will be sorry if I'm getting myself
all cold. They haven't got Brains, any of them, only grey fluff that's
blown into their heads by mistake, and they don't Think, but if it goes
on snowing for another six weeks or so, one of them will begin to say
to himself: 'Eeyore can't be so very much too Hot about three o'clock
in the morning.' And then it will Get About. And they'll be Sorry."

"Oh, Eeyore!" said Christopher Robin, feeling very sorry already.

"I don't mean you, Christopher Robin. You're different. So what it all
comes to is that I built myself a house down by my little wood."

"Did you really? How exciting!"

"The really exciting part," said Eeyore in his most melancholy voice,
"is that when I left it this morning it was there, and when I came back
it wasn't. Not at all, very natural, and it was only Eeyore's house.
But still I just wondered."

Christopher Robin didn't stop to wonder. He was already back in _his_
house, putting on his waterproof hat, his waterproof boots and his
waterproof macintosh as fast as he could.

"We'll go and look for it at once," he called out to Eeyore.

"Sometimes," said Eeyore, "when people have quite finished taking a
person's house, there are one or two bits which they don't want and are
rather glad for the person to take back, if you know what I mean. So I
thought if we just went----"

"Come on," said Christopher Robin, and off they hurried, and in a very
little time they got to the corner of the field by the side of the
pine-wood, where Eeyore's house wasn't any longer.

"There!" said Eeyore. "Not a stick of it left! Of course, I've still
got all this snow to do what I like with. One mustn't complain."

But Christopher Robin wasn't listening to Eeyore, he was listening to
something else.

"Can't you hear it?" he asked.

"What is it? Somebody laughing?"

"Listen."

They both listened ... and they heard a deep gruff voice saying in a
singing voice that the more it snowed the more it went on snowing, and
a small high voice tiddely-pomming in between.

"It's Pooh," said Christopher Robin excitedly....

"Possibly," said Eeyore.

"_And_ Piglet!" said Christopher Robin excitedly.

"Probably," said Eeyore. "What we _want_ is a Trained Bloodhound."

The words of the song changed suddenly.

"_We've finished our HOUSE!_" sang the gruff voice.

"_Tiddely pom!_" sang the squeaky one.

"_It's a beautiful HOUSE...._"

"_Tiddely pom...._"

"_I wish it were MINE...._"

"_Tiddely pom...._"

"Pooh!" shouted Christopher Robin....

The singers on the gate stopped suddenly.

"It's Christopher Robin!" said Pooh eagerly.

"He's round by the place where we got all those sticks from," said
Piglet.

"Come on," said Pooh.

They climbed down their gate and hurried round the corner of the wood,
Pooh making welcoming noises all the way.

"Why, here _is_ Eeyore," said Pooh, when he had finished hugging
Christopher Robin, and he nudged Piglet, and Piglet nudged him, and
they thought to themselves what a lovely surprise they had got ready.

"Hallo, Eeyore."

"Same to you, Pooh Bear, and twice on Thursdays," said Eeyore gloomily.

Before Pooh could say: "Why Thursdays?" Christopher Robin began to
explain the sad story of Eeyore's Lost House. And Pooh and Piglet
listened, and their eyes seemed to get bigger and bigger.

"_Where_ did you say it was?" asked Pooh.

"Just here," said Eeyore.

"Made of sticks?"

"Yes."

"Oh!" said Piglet.

"What?" said Eeyore.

"I just said 'Oh!'" said Piglet nervously. And so as to seem quite at
ease he hummed Tiddely-pom once or twice in a what-shall-we-do-now kind
of way.

"You're sure it _was_ a house?" said Pooh. "I mean, you're sure the
house was just here?"

"Of course I am," said Eeyore. And he murmured to himself, "No brain at
all some of them."

"Why, what's the matter, Pooh?" asked Christopher Robin.

"Well," said Pooh.... "The fact _is_," said Pooh.... "Well, the fact
_is_," said Pooh.... "You see," said Pooh.... "It's like this," said
Pooh, and something seemed to tell him that he wasn't explaining very
well, and he nudged Piglet again.

"It's like this," said Piglet quickly.... "Only warmer," he added after
deep thought.

"What's warmer?"

"The other side of the wood, where Eeyore's house is."

"_My_ house?" said Eeyore. "My house was here."

"No," said Piglet firmly. "The other side of the wood."

"Because of being warmer," said Pooh.

"But I ought to _know_----"

"Come and look," said Piglet simply, and he led the way.

"There wouldn't be _two_ houses," said Pooh. "Not so close together."

They came round the corner, and there was Eeyore's house, looking as
comfy as anything.

"There you are," said Piglet.

"Inside as well as outside," said Pooh proudly.

Eeyore went inside ... and came out again.

"It's a remarkable thing," he said. "It _is_ my house, and I built it
where I said I did, so the wind must have blown it here. And the wind
blew it right over the wood, and blew it down here, and here it is as
good as ever. In fact, better in places."

"Much better," said Pooh and Piglet together.

"It just shows what can be done by taking a little trouble," said
Eeyore. "Do you see, Pooh? Do you see, Piglet? Brains first and then
Hard Work. Look at it! _That's_ the way to build a house," said Eeyore
proudly.

       *       *       *       *       *

So they left him in it; and Christopher Robin went back to lunch with
his friends Pooh and Piglet, and on the way they told him of the Awful
Mistake they had made. And when he had finished laughing, they all sang
the Outdoor Song for Snowy Weather the rest of the way home, Piglet,
who was still not quite sure of his voice, putting in the tiddely-poms
again.

"And I know it _seems_ easy," said Piglet to himself, "but it isn't
_every one_ who could do it."




                              CHAPTER II

        IN WHICH _Tigger Comes to the Forest and Has Breakfast_


Winnie-the-pooh woke up suddenly in the middle of the night and
listened. Then he got out of bed, and lit his candle, and stumped
across the room to see if anybody was trying to get into his
honey-cupboard, and they weren't, so he stumped back again, blew out
his candle, and got into bed. Then he heard the noise again.

"Is that you, Piglet?" he said.

But it wasn't.

"Come in, Christopher Robin," he said.

But Christopher Robin didn't.

"Tell me about it tomorrow, Eeyore," said Pooh sleepily.

But the noise went on.

"_Worraworraworraworraworra_," said Whatever-it-was, and Pooh found
that he wasn't asleep after all.

"What can it be?" he thought. "There are lots of noises in
the Forest, but this is a different one. It isn't a growl,
and it isn't a purr, and it isn't a bark, and it isn't the
noise-you-make-before-beginning-a-piece-of-poetry, but it's a noise
of some kind, made by a strange animal. And he's making it outside my
door. So I shall get up and ask him not to do it."

He got out of bed and opened his front door.

"Hallo!" said Pooh, in case there was anything outside.

"Hallo!" said Whatever-it-was.

"Oh!" said Pooh. "Hallo!"

"Hallo!"

"Oh, _there_ you are!" said Pooh. "Hallo!"

"Hallo!" said the Strange Animal, wondering how long this was going on.

Pooh was just going to say "Hallo!" for the fourth time when he thought
that he wouldn't, so he said: "Who is it?" instead.

"Me," said a voice.

"Oh!" said Pooh. "Well, come here."

So Whatever-it-was came here, and in the light of the candle he and
Pooh looked at each other.

"I'm Pooh," said Pooh.

"I'm Tigger," said Tigger.

"Oh!" said Pooh, for he had never seen an animal like this before.
"Does Christopher Robin know about you?"

"Of course he does," said Tigger.

"Well," said Pooh, "it's the middle of the night, which is a good time
for going to sleep. And tomorrow morning we'll have some honey for
breakfast. Do Tiggers like honey?"

"They like everything," said Tigger cheerfully.

"Then if they like going to sleep on the floor, I'll go back to bed,"
said Pooh, "and we'll do things in the morning. Good night." And he got
back into bed and went fast asleep.

When he awoke in the morning, the first thing he saw was Tigger,
sitting in front of the glass and looking at himself.

"Hallo!" said Pooh.

"Hallo!" said Tigger. "I've found somebody just like me. I thought I
was the only one of them."

Pooh got out of bed, and began to explain what a looking-glass was, but
just as he was getting to the interesting part, Tigger said:

"Excuse me a moment, but there's something climbing up your table,"
and with one loud _Worraworraworraworraworra_ he jumped at the end
of the tablecloth, pulled it to the ground, wrapped himself up in it
three times, rolled to the other end of the room, and, after a terrible
struggle, got his head into the daylight again, and said cheerfully:
"Have I won?"

"That's my tablecloth," said Pooh, as he began to unwind Tigger.

"I wondered what it was," said Tigger.

"It goes on the table and you put things on it."

"Then why did it try to bite me when I wasn't looking?"

"I don't _think_ it did," said Pooh.

"It tried," said Tigger, "but I was too quick for it."

Pooh put the cloth back on the table, and he put a large honey-pot on
the cloth, and they sat down to breakfast. And as soon as they sat
down, Tigger took a large mouthful of honey ... and he looked up at the
ceiling with his head on one side, and made exploring noises with his
tongue and considering noises, and what-have-we-got-_here_ noises ...
and then he said in a very decided voice:

"Tiggers don't like honey."

"Oh!" said Pooh, and tried to make it sound Sad and Regretful. "I
thought they liked everything."

"Everything except honey," said Tigger.

Pooh felt rather pleased about this, and said that, as soon as he had
finished his own breakfast, he would take Tigger round to Piglet's
house, and Tigger could try some of Piglet's haycorns.

"Thank you, Pooh," said Tigger, "because haycorns is really what
Tiggers like best."

So after breakfast they went round to see Piglet, and Pooh explained as
they went that Piglet was a Very Small Animal who didn't like bouncing,
and asked Tigger not to be too Bouncy just at first. And Tigger, who
had been hiding behind trees and jumping out on Pooh's shadow when it
wasn't looking, said that Tiggers were only bouncy before breakfast,
and that as soon as they had had a few haycorns they became Quiet and
Refined. So by and by they knocked at the door of Piglet's house.

"Hallo, Pooh," said Piglet.

"Hallo, Piglet. This is Tigger."

"Oh, is it?" said Piglet, and he edged round to the other side of the
table. "I thought Tiggers were smaller than that."

"Not the big ones," said Tigger.

"They like haycorns," said Pooh, "so that's what we've come for,
because poor Tigger hasn't had any breakfast yet."

Piglet pushed the bowl of haycorns towards Tigger, and said: "Help
yourself," and then he got close up to Pooh and felt much braver, and
said, "So you're Tigger? Well, well!" in a careless sort of voice. But
Tigger said nothing because his mouth was full of haycorns....

After a long munching noise he said:

"Ee-ers o i a-ors."

And when Pooh and Piglet said "What?" he said "Skoos ee," and went
outside for a moment.

When he came back he said firmly:

"Tiggers don't like haycorns."

"But you said they liked everything except honey," said Pooh.

"Everything except honey and haycorns," explained Tigger.

When he heard this Pooh said, "Oh, I see!" and Piglet, who was rather
glad that Tiggers didn't like haycorns, said, "What about thistles?"

"Thistles," said Tigger, "is what Tiggers like best."

"Then let's go along and see Eeyore," said Piglet.

So the three of them went; and after they had walked and walked and
walked, they came to the part of the Forest where Eeyore was.

"Hallo, Eeyore!" said Pooh. "This is Tigger."

"What is?" said Eeyore.

"This," explained Pooh and Piglet together, and Tigger smiled his
happiest smile and said nothing.

Eeyore walked all round Tigger one way, and then turned and walked all
round him the other way.

"What did you say it was?" he asked.

"Tigger."

"Ah!" said Eeyore.

"He's just come," explained Piglet.

"Ah!" said Eeyore again.

He thought for a long time and then said:

"When is he going?"

Pooh explained to Eeyore that Tigger was a great friend of Christopher
Robin's, who had come to stay in the Forest, and Piglet explained to
Tigger that he mustn't mind what Eeyore said because he was _always_
gloomy; and Eeyore explained to Piglet that, on the contrary, he was
feeling particularly cheerful this morning; and Tigger explained to
anybody who was listening that he hadn't had any breakfast yet.

"I knew there was something," said Pooh. "Tiggers always eat thistles,
so that was why we came to see you, Eeyore."

"Don't mention it, Pooh."

"Oh, Eeyore, I didn't mean that I didn't _want_ to see you----"

"Quite--quite. But your new stripy friend--naturally, he wants his
breakfast. What did you say his name was?"

"Tigger."

"Then come this way, Tigger."

Eeyore led the way to the most thistly-looking patch of thistles that
ever was, and waved a hoof at it.

"A little patch I was keeping for my birthday," he said; "but, after
all, what _are_ birthdays? Here today and gone tomorrow. Help yourself,
Tigger."

Tigger thanked him and looked a little anxiously at Pooh.

"Are these really thistles?" he whispered.

"Yes," said Pooh.

"What Tiggers like best?"

"That's right," said Pooh.

"I see," said Tigger.

So he took a large mouthful, and he gave a large crunch.

"_Ow!_" said Tigger.

He sat down and put his paw in his mouth.

"What's the matter?" asked Pooh.

"_Hot!_" mumbled Tigger.

"Your friend," said Eeyore, "appears to have bitten on a bee."

Pooh's friend stopped shaking his head to get the prickles out, and
explained that Tiggers didn't like thistles.

"Then why bend a perfectly good one?" asked Eeyore.

"But you said," began Pooh--"you _said_ that Tiggers liked everything
except honey and haycorns."

"_And_ thistles," said Tigger, who was now running round in circles
with his tongue hanging out.

Pooh looked at him sadly.

"What are we going to do?" he asked Piglet.

Piglet knew the answer to that, and he said at once that they must go
and see Christopher Robin.

"You'll find him with Kanga," said Eeyore. He came close to Pooh, and
said in a loud whisper:

"_Could_ you ask your friend to do his exercises somewhere else? I
shall be having lunch directly, and don't want it bounced on just
before I begin. A trifling matter, and fussy of me, but we all have our
little ways."

Pooh nodded solemnly and called to Tigger.

"Come along and we'll go and see Kanga. She's sure to have lots of
breakfast for you."

Tigger finished his last circle and came up to Pooh and Piglet.

"Hot!" he explained with a large and friendly smile. "Come on!" and he
rushed off.

Pooh and Piglet walked slowly after him. And as they walked Piglet said
nothing, because he couldn't think of anything, and Pooh said nothing,
because he was thinking of a poem. And when he had thought of it he
began:

    What shall we do about poor little Tigger?
    If he never eats nothing he'll never get bigger.
    He doesn't like honey and haycorns and thistles
    Because of the taste and because of the bristles.
    And all the good things which an animal likes
    Have the wrong sort of swallow or too many spikes.

"He's quite big enough anyhow," said Piglet.

"He isn't _really_ very big."

"Well, he _seems_ so."

Pooh was thoughtful when he heard this, and then he murmured to himself:

    But whatever his weight in pounds, shillings, and ounces,
    He always seems bigger because of his bounces.

"And that's the whole poem," he said. "Do you like it, Piglet?"

"All except the shillings," said Piglet. "I don't think they ought to
be there."

"They wanted to come in after the pounds," explained Pooh, "so I let
them. It is the best way to write poetry, letting things come."

"Oh, I didn't know," said Piglet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tigger had been bouncing in front of them all this time, turning round
every now and then to ask, "Is this the way?"--and now at last they
came in sight of Kanga's house, and there was Christopher Robin. Tigger
rushed up to him.

"Oh, there you are, Tigger!" said Christopher Robin. "I knew you'd be
somewhere."

"I've been finding things in the Forest," said Tigger importantly.
"I've found a pooh and a piglet and an eeyore, but I can't find any
breakfast."

Pooh and Piglet came up and hugged Christopher Robin, and explained
what had been happening.

"Don't _you_ know what Tiggers like?" asked Pooh.

"I expect if I thought very hard I should," said Christopher Robin,
"but I _thought_ Tigger knew."

"I do," said Tigger. "Everything there is in the world except honey and
haycorns and--what were those hot things called?"

"Thistles."

"Yes, and those."

"Oh, well then, Kanga can give you some breakfast."

So they went into Kanga's house, and when Roo had said, "Hallo, Pooh,"
and "Hallo, Piglet" once, and "Hallo, Tigger" twice, because he had
never said it before and it sounded funny, they told Kanga what they
wanted, and Kanga said very kindly, "Well, look in my cupboard, Tigger
dear, and see what you'd like." Because she knew at once that, however
big Tigger seemed to be, he wanted as much kindness as Roo.

"Shall I look, too?" said Pooh, who was beginning to feel a little
eleven o'clockish. And he found a small tin of condensed milk, and
something seemed to tell him that Tiggers didn't like this, so he
took it into a corner by itself, and went with it to see that nobody
interrupted it.

But the more Tigger put his nose into this and his paw into that, the
more things he found which Tiggers didn't like. And when he had found
everything in the cupboard, and couldn't eat any of it, he said to
Kanga, "What happens now?"

But Kanga and Christopher Robin and Piglet were all standing round Roo,
watching him have his Extract of Malt. And Roo was saying, "Must I?"
and Kanga was saying "Now, Roo dear, you remember what you promised."

"What is it?" whispered Tigger to Piglet.

"His Strengthening Medicine," said Piglet. "He hates it."

So Tigger came closer, and he leant over the back of Roo's chair, and
suddenly he put out his tongue, and took one large golollop, and, with
a sudden jump of surprise, Kanga said, "Oh!" and then clutched at the
spoon again just as it was disappearing, and pulled it safely back out
of Tigger's mouth. But the Extract of Malt had gone.

"Tigger _dear_!" said Kanga.

"He's taken my medicine, he's taken my medicine, he's taken my
medicine!" sang Roo happily, thinking it was a tremendous joke.

Then Tigger looked up at the ceiling, and closed his eyes, and his
tongue went round and round his chops, in case he had left any outside,
and a peaceful smile came over his face as he said, "So _that's_ what
Tiggers like!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Which explains why he always lived at Kanga's house afterwards, and had
Extract of Malt for breakfast, dinner, and tea. And sometimes, when
Kanga thought he wanted strengthening, he had a spoonful or two of
Roo's breakfast after meals as medicine.

"But _I_ think," said Piglet to Pooh, "that he's been strengthened
quite enough."




                              CHAPTER III

                 IN WHICH _A Search Is Organdized, and
               Piglet Nearly Meets the Heffalump Again_


Pooh was sitting in his house one day, counting his pots of honey, when
there came a knock on the door.

"Fourteen," said Pooh. "Come in. Fourteen. Or was it fifteen? Bother.
That's muddled me."

"Hallo, Pooh," said Rabbit.

"Hallo, Rabbit. Fourteen, wasn't it?"

"What was?"

"My pots of honey what I was counting."

"Fourteen, that's right."

"Are you sure?"

"No," said Rabbit. "Does it matter?"

"I just like to know," said Pooh humbly. "So as I can say to myself:
'I've got fourteen pots of honey left.' Or fifteen, as the case may be.
It's sort of comforting."

"Well, let's call it sixteen," said Rabbit. "What I came to say was:
Have you seen Small anywhere about?"

"I don't think so," said Pooh. And then, after thinking a little more,
he said: "Who is Small?"

"One of my friends-and-relations," said Rabbit carelessly.

This didn't help Pooh much, because Rabbit had so many
friends-and-relations, and of such different sorts and sizes, that he
didn't know whether he ought to be looking for Small at the top of an
oak-tree or in the petal of a buttercup.

"I haven't seen anybody today," said Pooh, "not so as to say 'Hallo,
Small,' to. Did you want him for anything?"

"_I_ don't _want_ him," said Rabbit. "But it's always useful to know
where a friend-and-relation _is_, whether you want him or whether you
don't."

"Oh, I see," said Pooh. "Is he lost?"

"Well," said Rabbit, "nobody has seen him for a long time, so I suppose
he is. Anyhow," he went on importantly, "I promised Christopher Robin
I'd Organize a Search for him, so come on."

Pooh said good-bye affectionately to his fourteen pots of honey, and
hoped they were fifteen; and he and Rabbit went out into the Forest.

"Now," said Rabbit, "this is a Search, and I've Organized it----"

"Done what to it?" said Pooh.

"Organized it. Which means--well, it's what you do to a Search, when
you don't all look in the same place at once. So I want _you_, Pooh,
to search by the Six Pine Trees first, and then work your way towards
Owl's House, and look out for me there. Do you see?"

"No," said Pooh. "What----"

"Then I'll see you at Owl's House in about an hour's time."

"Is Piglet organdized too?"

"We all are," said Rabbit, and off he went.

       *       *       *       *       *

As soon as Rabbit was out of sight, Pooh remembered that he had
forgotten to ask who Small was, and whether he was the sort of
friend-and-relation who settled on one's nose, or the sort who got
trodden on by mistake, and as it was Too Late Now, he thought he would
begin the Hunt by looking for Piglet, and asking him what they were
looking for before he looked for it.

"And it's no good looking at the Six Pine Trees for Piglet," said Pooh
to himself, "because he's been organdized in a special place of his
own. So I shall have to look for the Special Place first. I wonder
where it is." And he wrote it down in his head like this:


                      ORDER OF LOOKING FOR THINGS

    1. Special Place. (_To find Piglet._)
    2. Piglet.        (_To find who Small is._)
    3. Small.         (_To find Small._)
    4. Rabbit.        (_To tell him I've found Small._)
    5. Small Again.   (_To tell him I've found Rabbit._)

"Which makes it look like a bothering sort of day," thought Pooh, as he
stumped along.

The next moment the day became very bothering indeed, because Pooh was
so busy not looking where he was going that he stepped on a piece of
the Forest which had been left out by mistake; and he only just had
time to think to himself: "I'm flying. What Owl does. I wonder how you
stop----" when he stopped.

_Bump!_

"Ow!" squeaked something.

"That's funny," thought Pooh. "I said 'Ow!' without really oo'ing."

"Help!" said a small, high voice.

"That's me again," thought Pooh. "I've had an Accident, and fallen down
a well, and my voice has gone all squeaky and works before I'm ready
for it, because I've done something to myself inside. Bother!"

"Help--help!"

"There you are! I say things when I'm not trying. So it must be a very
bad Accident." And then he thought that perhaps when he did try to say
things he wouldn't be able to; so, to make sure, he said loudly: "A
Very Bad Accident to Pooh Bear."

"Pooh!" squeaked the voice.

"It's Piglet!" cried Pooh eagerly. "Where are you?"

"Underneath," said Piglet in an underneath sort of way.

"Underneath what?"

"You," squeaked Piglet. "Get up!"

"Oh!" said Pooh, and scrambled up as quickly as he could. "Did I fall
on you, Piglet?"

"You fell on me," said Piglet, feeling himself all over.

"I didn't mean to," said Pooh sorrowfully.

"I didn't mean to be underneath," said Piglet sadly. "But I'm all right
now, Pooh, and I _am_ so glad it was you."

"What's happened?" said Pooh. "Where are we?"

"I think we're in a sort of Pit. I was walking along, looking for
somebody, and then suddenly I wasn't any more, and just when I got up
to see where I was, something fell on me. And it was you."

"So it was," said Pooh.

"Yes," said Piglet. "Pooh," he went on nervously, and came a little
closer, "do you think we're in a Trap?"

Pooh hadn't thought about it at all, but now he nodded. For suddenly he
remembered how he and Piglet had once made a Pooh Trap for Heffalumps,
and he guessed what had happened. He and Piglet had fallen into a
Heffalump Trap for Poohs! That was what it was.

"What happens when the Heffalump comes?" asked Piglet tremblingly, when
he had heard the news.

"Perhaps he won't notice _you_, Piglet," said Pooh encouragingly,
"because you're a Very Small Animal."

"But he'll notice _you_, Pooh."

"He'll notice _me_, and I shall notice _him_," said Pooh, thinking it
out. "We'll notice each other for a long time, and then he'll say:
'Ho-_ho_!'"

Piglet shivered a little at the thought of that "Ho-_ho_!" and his ears
began to twitch.

"W-what will _you_ say?" he asked.

Pooh tried to think of something he would say, but the more he thought,
the more he felt that there _is_ no real answer to "Ho-_ho_!" said by a
Heffalump in the sort of voice this Heffalump was going to say it in.

"I shan't say anything," said Pooh at last. "I shall just hum to
myself, as if I was waiting for something."

"Then perhaps he'll say, 'Ho-_ho_!' again?" suggested Piglet anxiously.

"He will," said Pooh.

Piglet's ears twitched so quickly that he had to lean them against the
side of the Trap to keep them quiet.

"He will say it again," said Pooh, "and I shall go on humming. And that
will Upset him. Because when you say 'Ho-_ho_' twice, in a gloating
sort of way, and the other person only hums, you suddenly find, just as
you begin to say it the third time--that--well, you find----"

"What?"

"That it isn't," said Pooh.

"Isn't what?"

Pooh knew what he meant, but, being a Bear of Very Little Brain,
couldn't think of the words.

"Well, it just isn't," he said again.

"You mean it isn't ho-_ho_-ish any more?" said Piglet hopefully.

Pooh looked at him admiringly and said that that was what he meant--if
you went on humming all the time, because you couldn't go on saying
"Ho-_ho_!" for ever.

"But he'll say something else," said Piglet.

"That's just it. He'll say: 'What's all this?' And then _I_ shall
say--and this is a very good idea, Piglet, which I've just thought
of--_I_ shall say: 'It's a trap for a Heffalump which I've made, and
I'm waiting for the Heffalump to fall in.' And I shall go on humming.
That will Unsettle him."

"Pooh!" cried Piglet, and now it was _his_ turn to be the admiring one.
"You've saved us!"

"Have I?" said Pooh, not feeling quite sure.

But Piglet was quite sure; and his mind ran on, and he saw Pooh and the
Heffalump talking to each other, and he thought suddenly, and a little
sadly, that it _would_ have been rather nice if it had been Piglet and
the Heffalump talking so grandly to each other, and not Pooh, much as
he loved Pooh; because he really had more brain than Pooh, and the
conversation would go better if he and not Pooh were doing one side
of it, and it would be comforting afterwards in the evenings to look
back on the day when he answered a Heffalump back as bravely as if the
Heffalump wasn't there. It seemed so easy now. He knew just what he
would say:

HEFFALUMP (_gloatingly_): "Ho-_ho_!"

PIGLET (_carelessly_): "Tra-la-la, tra-la-la."

HEFFALUMP (_surprised, and not quite so sure of himself_):
"Ho-_ho_!"

PIGLET (_more carelessly still_): "Tiddle-um-tum,
tiddle-um-tum."

HEFFALUMP (_beginning to say Ho-ho and turning it awkwardly
into a cough_): "H'r'm! What's all this?"

PIGLET (_surprised_): "Hullo! This is a trap I've made, and
I'm waiting for a HEFFALUMP to fall into it."

HEFFALUMP (_greatly disappointed_): "Oh!" (_After a long
silence_): "Are you sure?"

PIGLET: "Yes."

HEFFALUMP: "Oh!" (_nervously_): "I--I thought it was a trap
_I'd_ made to catch Piglets."

PIGLET (_surprised_): "Oh, no!"

HEFFALUMP: "Oh!" (_Apologetically_): "I--I must have got it
wrong, then."

PIGLET: "I'm afraid so." (_Politely_): "I'm sorry." (_He goes
on humming._)

HEFFALUMP: "Well--well--I--well. I suppose I'd better be
getting back?"

PIGLET (_looking up carelessly_): "Must you? Well, if you see
Christopher Robin anywhere, you might tell him I want him."

HEFFALUMP (_eager to please_): "Certainly! Certainly!" (_He
hurries off._)

POOH (_who wasn't going to be there, but we find we can't do
without him_): "Oh, Piglet, how brave and clever you are!"

PIGLET (_modestly_): "Not at all, Pooh." (_And then, when
Christopher Robin comes, Pooh can tell him all about it._)

While Piglet was dreaming this happy dream, and Pooh was wondering
again whether it was fourteen or fifteen, the Search for Small was
still going on all over the Forest. Small's real name was Very Small
Beetle, but he was called Small for short, when he was spoken to at
all, which hardly ever happened except when somebody said: "_Really_,
Small!" He had been staying with Christopher Robin for a few seconds,
and he started round a gorse-bush for exercise, but instead of coming
back the other way, as expected, he hadn't, so nobody knew where he was.

"I expect he's just gone home," said Christopher Robin to Rabbit.

"Did he say Good-bye-and-thank-you-for-a-nice-time?" said Rabbit.

"He'd only just said how-do-you-do," said Christopher Robin.

"Ha!" said Rabbit. After thinking a little, he went on: "Has he written
a letter saying how much he enjoyed himself, and how sorry he was he
had to go so suddenly?"

Christopher Robin didn't think he had.

"Ha!" said Rabbit again, and looked very important. "This is Serious.
He is Lost. We must begin the Search at once."

Christopher Robin, who was thinking of something else, said: "Where's
Pooh?"--but Rabbit had gone. So he went into his house and drew a
picture of Pooh going on a long walk at about seven o'clock in the
morning, and then he climbed to the top of his tree and climbed down
again, and then he wondered what Pooh was doing, and went across the
Forest to see.

It was not long before he came to the Gravel Pit, and he looked down,
and there were Pooh and Piglet, with their backs to him, dreaming
happily.

"Ho-_ho_!" said Christopher Robin loudly and suddenly.

Piglet jumped six inches in the air with Surprise and Anxiety, but Pooh
went on dreaming.

"It's the Heffalump!" thought Piglet nervously. "Now, then!" He
hummed in his throat a little, so that none of the words should stick,
and then, in the most delightfully easy way, he said: "Tra-la-la,
tra-la-la," as if he had just thought of it. But he didn't look
round, because if you look round and see a Very Fierce Heffalump
looking down at you, sometimes you forget what you were going to say.
"Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um," said Christopher Robin in a voice like Pooh's.
Because Pooh had once invented a song which went:

      Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,
      Tra-la-la, tra-la-la,
    Rum-tum-tum-tiddle-um.

So whenever Christopher Robin sings it, he always sings it in a
Pooh-voice, which seems to suit it better.

"He's said the wrong thing," thought Piglet anxiously. "He ought to
have said, 'Ho-_ho_!' again. Perhaps I had better say it for him." And,
as fiercely as he could, Piglet said: "Ho-_ho_!"

"How _did_ you get there, Piglet?" said Christopher Robin in his
ordinary voice.

"This is Terrible," thought Piglet. "First he talks in Pooh's voice,
and then he talks in Christopher Robin's voice, and he's doing it so
as to Unsettle me." And being now Completely Unsettled, he said very
quickly and squeakily: "This is a trap for Poohs, and I'm waiting to
fall in it, ho-_ho_, what's all this, and then I say ho-_ho_ again."

"_What?_" said Christopher Robin.

"A trap for ho-ho's," said Piglet huskily. "I've just made it, and I'm
waiting for the ho-ho to come-come."

How long Piglet would have gone on like this I don't know, but at that
moment Pooh woke up suddenly and decided that it was sixteen. So he got
up; and as he turned his head so as to soothe himself in that awkward
place in the middle of the back where something was tickling him, he
saw Christopher Robin.

"Hallo!" he shouted joyfully.

"Hallo, Pooh."

Piglet looked up, and looked away again. And he felt so Foolish and
Uncomfortable that he had almost decided to run away to Sea and be a
Sailor, when suddenly he saw something.

"Pooh!" he cried. "There's something climbing up your back."

"I thought there was," said Pooh.

"It's Small!" cried Piglet.

"Oh, _that's_ who it is, is it?" said Pooh.

"Christopher Robin, I've found Small!" cried Piglet.

"Well done, Piglet," said Christopher Robin.

And at these encouraging words Piglet felt quite happy again, and
decided not to be a Sailor after all. So when Christopher Robin
had helped them out of the Gravel Pit, they all went off together
hand-in-hand.

And two days later Rabbit happened to meet Eeyore in the Forest.

"Hallo, Eeyore," he said, "what are _you_ looking for?"

"Small, of course," said Eeyore. "Haven't you any brain?"

"Oh, but didn't I tell you?" said Rabbit. "Small was found two days
ago."

There was a moment's silence.

"Ha-ha," said Eeyore bitterly. "Merriment and what-not. Don't
apologize. It's just what _would_ happen."




                              CHAPTER IV

         IN WHICH _It Is Shown That Tiggers Don't Climb Trees_


One day when Pooh was thinking, he thought he would go and see Eeyore,
because he hadn't seen him since yesterday. And as he walked through
the heather, singing to himself, he suddenly remembered that he hadn't
seen Owl since the day before yesterday, so he thought that he would
just look in at the Hundred Acre Wood on the way and see if Owl was at
home.

Well, he went on singing, until he came to the part of the stream where
the stepping-stones were, and when he was in the middle of the third
stone he began to wonder how Kanga and Roo and Tigger were getting on,
because they all lived together in a different part of the Forest. And
he thought, "I haven't seen Roo for a long time, and if I don't see him
today it will be a still longer time." So he sat down on the stone in
the middle of the stream, and sang another verse of his song, while he
wondered what to do.

The other verse of the song was like this:

    I could spend a happy morning
      Seeing Roo,
    I could spend a happy morning
      Being Pooh.
    For it doesn't seem to matter,
    If I don't get any fatter
    (And I _don't_ get any fatter),
      What I do.

The sun was so delightfully warm, and the stone, which had been sitting
in it for a long time, was so warm, too, that Pooh had almost decided
to go on being Pooh in the middle of the stream for the rest of the
morning, when he remembered Rabbit.

"Rabbit," said Pooh to himself. "I _like_ talking to Rabbit. He talks
about sensible things. He doesn't use long, difficult words, like Owl.
He uses short, easy words, like 'What about lunch?' and 'Help yourself,
Pooh.' I suppose _really_, I ought to go and see Rabbit."

Which made him think of another verse:

    Oh, I like his way of talking,
      Yes, I do.
    It's the nicest way of talking
      Just for two.
    And a Help-yourself with Rabbit
    Though it may become a habit,
    Is a _pleasant_ sort of habit
      For a Pooh.

So when he had sung this, he got up off his stone, walked back across
the stream, and set off for Rabbit's house.

But he hadn't got far before he began to say to himself:

"Yes, but suppose Rabbit is out?"

"Or suppose I get stuck in his front door again, coming out, as I did
once when his front door wasn't big enough?"

"Because I _know_ I'm not getting fatter, but his front door may be
getting thinner."

"So wouldn't it be better if----"

And all the time he was saying things like this he was going more and
more westerly, without thinking ... until suddenly he found himself at
his own front door again.

And it was eleven o'clock.

Which was Time-for-a-little-something....

Half an hour later he was doing what he had always really meant to do,
he was stumping off to Piglet's house. And as he walked, he wiped his
mouth with the back of his paw, and sang rather a fluffy song through
the fur. It went like this:

    I could spend a happy morning
      Seeing Piglet.
    And I couldn't spend a happy morning
      Not seeing Piglet.
    And it doesn't seem to matter
    If I don't see Owl and Eeyore
        (or any of the others),
    And I'm not going to see Owl or Eeyore
        (or any of the others)
      Or Christopher Robin.

Written down, like this, it doesn't seem a very good song, but coming
through pale fawn fluff at about half-past eleven on a very sunny
morning, it seemed to Pooh to be one of the best songs he had ever
sung. So he went on singing it.

Piglet was busy digging a small hole in the ground outside his house.

"Hallo, Piglet," said Pooh.

"Hallo, Pooh," said Piglet, giving a jump of surprise. "I knew it was
you."

"So did I," said Pooh. "What are you doing?"

"I'm planting a haycorn, Pooh, so that it can grow up into an oak-tree,
and have lots of haycorns just outside the front door instead of having
to walk miles and miles, do you see, Pooh?"

"Supposing it doesn't?" said Pooh.

"It will, because Christopher Robin says it will, so that's why I'm
planting it."

"Well," said Pooh, "if I plant a honeycomb outside my house, then it
will grow up into a beehive."

Piglet wasn't quite sure about this.

"Or a _piece_ of a honeycomb," said Pooh, "so as not to waste too much.
Only then I might only get a piece of a beehive, and it might be the
wrong piece, where the bees were buzzing and not hunnying. Bother."

Piglet agreed that that would be rather bothering.

"Besides, Pooh, it's a very difficult thing, planting unless you know
how to do it," he said; and he put the acorn in the hole he had made,
and covered it up with earth, and jumped on it.

"I do know," said Pooh, "because Christopher Robin gave me a
mastershalum seed, and I planted it, and I'm going to have
mastershalums all over the front door."

"I thought they were called nasturtiums," said Piglet timidly, as he
went on jumping.

"No," said Pooh. "Not these. These are called mastershalums."

When Piglet had finished jumping, he wiped his paws on his front, and
said, "What shall we do now?" and Pooh said, "Let's go and see Kanga
and Roo and Tigger," and Piglet said, "Y-yes. L-lets"--because he was
still a little anxious about Tigger, who was a Very Bouncy Animal, with
a way of saying How-do-you-do, which always left your ears full of
sand, even after Kanga had said, "Gently, Tigger dear," and had helped
you up again. So they set off for Kanga's house.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now it happened that Kanga had felt rather motherly that morning, and
Wanting to Count Things--like Roo's vests, and how many pieces of soap
there were left, and the two clean spots in Tigger's feeder; so she
had sent them out with a packet of watercress sandwiches for Roo and a
packet of extract-of-malt sandwiches for Tigger, to have a nice long
morning in the Forest not getting into mischief. And off they had gone.

And as they went, Tigger told Roo (who wanted to know) all about the
things that Tiggers could do.

"Can they fly?" asked Roo.

"Yes," said Tigger, "they're very good flyers, Tiggers are. Stornry
good flyers."

"Oo!" said Roo. "Can they fly as well as Owl?"

"Yes," said Tigger. "Only they don't want to."

"Why don't they want to?"

"Well, they just don't like it, somehow."

Roo couldn't understand this, because he thought it would be lovely to
be able to fly, but Tigger said it was difficult to explain to anybody
who wasn't a Tigger himself.

"Well," said Roo, "can they jump as far as Kangas?"

"Yes," said Tigger. "When they want to."

"I _love_ jumping," said Roo. "Let's see who can jump farthest, you or
me."

"_I_ can," said Tigger. "But we mustn't stop now, or we shall be late."

"Late for what?"

"For whatever we want to be in time for," said Tigger, hurrying on.

In a little while they came to the Six Pine Trees.

"I can swim," said Roo. "I fell into the river, and I swimmed. Can
Tiggers swim?"

"Of course they can. Tiggers can do everything."

"Can they climb trees better than Pooh?" asked Roo, stopping under the
tallest Pine Tree, and looking up at it.

"Climbing trees is what they do best," said Tigger. "Much better than
Poohs."

"Could they climb this one?"

"They're always climbing trees like that," said Tigger. "Up and down
all day."

"Oo, Tigger, are they _really_?"

"I'll show you," said Tigger bravely, "and you can sit on my back and
watch me." For of all the things which he had said Tiggers could do,
the only one he felt really certain about suddenly was climbing trees.

"Oo, Tigger, oo, Tigger, oo, Tigger!" squeaked Roo excitedly.

So he sat on Tigger's back and up they went.

And for the first ten feet Tigger said happily to himself, "Up we go!"

And for the next ten feet he said:

"I always _said_ Tiggers could climb trees."

And for the next ten feet he said:

"Not that it's easy, mind you."

And for the next ten feet he said:

"Of course, there's the coming-down too. Backwards."

And then he said:

"Which will be difficult ...

"Unless one fell ...

"when it would be ...

"EASY."

And at the word "easy" the branch he was standing on broke suddenly,
and he just managed to clutch at the one above him as he felt himself
going ... and then slowly he got his chin over it ... and then one back
paw ... and then the other ... until at last he was sitting on it,
breathing very quickly, and wishing that he had gone in for swimming
instead.

Roo climbed off, and sat down next to him.

"Oo, Tigger," he said excitedly, "are we at the top?"

"No," said Tigger.

"Are we going to the top?"

"No," said Tigger.

"Oh!" said Roo rather sadly. And then he went on hopefully: "That
was a lovely bit just now, when you pretended we were going to
fall-bump-to-the-bottom, and we didn't. Will you do that bit again?"

"NO," said Tigger.

Roo was silent for a little while, and then he said, "Shall we eat our
sandwiches, Tigger?" And Tigger said, "Yes, where are they?" And Roo
said, "At the bottom of the tree." And Tigger said, "I don't think we'd
better eat them just yet." So they didn't.

       *       *       *       *       *

By and by Pooh and Piglet came along. Pooh was telling Piglet in a
singing voice that it didn't seem to matter, if he didn't get any
fatter, and he didn't _think_ he was getting any fatter, what he did;
and Piglet was wondering how long it would be before his haycorn came
up.

"Look, Pooh!" said Piglet suddenly. "There's something in one of the
Pine Trees."

"So there is!" said Pooh, looking up wonderingly. "There's an Animal."

Piglet took Pooh's arm, in case Pooh was frightened.

"Is it One of the Fiercer Animals?" he said, looking the other way.

Pooh nodded.

"It's a Jagular," he said.

"What do Jagulars do?" asked Piglet, hoping that they wouldn't.

"They hide in the branches of trees, and drop on you as you go
underneath," said Pooh. "Christopher Robin told me."

"Perhaps we better hadn't go underneath, Pooh. In case he dropped and
hurt himself."

"They don't hurt themselves," said Pooh. "They're such very good
droppers."

Piglet still felt that to be underneath a Very Good Dropper would be a
Mistake, and he was just going to hurry back for something which he had
forgotten when the Jagular called out to them.

"Help! Help!" it called.

"That's what Jagulars always do," said Pooh, much interested. "They
call 'Help! Help!' and then when you look up, they drop on you."

"I'm looking _down_," cried Piglet loudly, so as the Jagular shouldn't
do the wrong thing by accident.

Something very excited next to the Jagular heard him, and squeaked:

"Pooh and Piglet! Pooh and Piglet!"

All of a sudden Piglet felt that it was a much nicer day than he had
thought it was. All warm and sunny----

"Pooh!" he cried. "I believe it's Tigger and Roo!"

"So it is," said Pooh. "I thought it was a Jagular and another Jagular."

"Hallo, Roo!" called Piglet. "What are you doing?"

"We can't get down, we can't get down!" cried Roo. "Isn't it fun? Pooh,
isn't it fun, Tigger and I are living in a tree, like Owl, and we're
going to stay here for ever and ever. I can see Piglet's house. Piglet,
I can see your house from here. Aren't we high? Is Owl's house as high
up as this?"

"How did you get there, Roo?" asked Piglet.

"On Tigger's back! And Tiggers can't climb downwards, because their
tails get in the way, only upwards, and Tigger forgot about that when
we started, and he's only just remembered. So we've got to stay here
for ever and ever--unless we go higher. What did you say, Tigger? Oh,
Tigger says if we go higher we shan't be able to see Piglet's house so
well, so we're going to stop here."

"Piglet," said Pooh solemnly, when he had heard all this, "what shall
we do?" And he began to eat Tigger's sandwiches.

"Are they stuck?" asked Piglet anxiously.

Pooh nodded.

"Couldn't you climb up to them?"

"I might, Piglet, and I might bring Roo down on my back, but I couldn't
bring Tigger down. So we must think of something else." And in a
thoughtful way he began to eat Roo's sandwiches, too.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whether he would have thought of anything before he had finished the
last sandwich, I don't know, but he had just got to the last but one
when there was a crackling in the bracken, and Christopher Robin and
Eeyore came strolling along together.

"I shouldn't be surprised if it hailed a good deal tomorrow," Eeyore
was saying. "Blizzards and what-not. Being fine today doesn't Mean
Anything. It has no sig--what's that word? Well, it has none of that.
It's just a small piece of weather."

"There's Pooh!" said Christopher Robin, who didn't much mind _what_ it
did tomorrow, as long as he was out in it. "Hallo, Pooh!"

"It's Christopher Robin!" said Piglet. "_He'll_ know what to do."

They hurried up to him.

"Oh, Christopher Robin," began Pooh.

"And Eeyore," said Eeyore.

"Tigger and Roo are right up the Six Pine Trees, and they can't get
down, and----"

"And I was just saying," put in Piglet, "that if only Christopher
Robin----"

"_And_ Eeyore----"

"If only you were here, then we could think of something to do."

Christopher Robin looked up at Tigger and Roo, and tried to think of
something.

"_I_ thought," said Piglet earnestly, "that if Eeyore stood at the
bottom of the tree, and if Pooh stood on Eeyore's back, and if I stood
on Pooh's shoulders----"

"And if Eeyore's back snapped suddenly, then we could all laugh. Ha ha!
Amusing in a quiet way," said Eeyore, "but not really helpful."

"Well," said Piglet meekly, "_I_ thought----"

"Would it break your back, Eeyore?" asked Pooh, very much surprised.

"That's what would be so interesting, Pooh. Not being quite sure till
afterwards."

Pooh said "Oh!" and they all began to think again.

"I've got an idea!" cried Christopher Robin suddenly.

"Listen to this, Piglet," said Eeyore, "and then you'll know what we're
trying to do."

"I'll take off my tunic and we'll each hold a corner, and then Roo and
Tigger can jump into it, and it will be all soft and bouncy for them,
and they won't hurt themselves."

"_Getting Tigger down_," said Eeyore, "and _Not hurting anybody_. Keep
those two ideas in your head, Piglet, and you'll be all right."

But Piglet wasn't listening, he was so agog at the thought of seeing
Christopher Robin's blue braces again. He had only seen them once
before, when he was much younger, and, being a little over-excited by
them, had had to go to bed half an hour earlier than usual; and he had
always wondered since if they were _really_ as blue and as bracing as
he had thought them. So when Christopher Robin took his tunic off,
and they were, he felt quite friendly to Eeyore again, and held the
corner of the tunic next to him and smiled happily at him. And Eeyore
whispered back: "I'm not saying there won't be an Accident _now_, mind
you. They're funny things, Accidents. You never have them till you're
having them."

When Roo understood what he had to do, he was wildly excited, and cried
out: "Tigger, Tigger, we're going to jump! Look at me jumping, Tigger!
Like flying, my jumping will be. Can Tiggers do it?" And he squeaked
out: "I'm coming, Christopher Robin!" and he jumped--straight into the
middle of the tunic. And he was going so fast that he bounced up again
almost as high as where he was before--and went on bouncing and saying,
"Oo!" for quite a long time--and then at last he stopped and said, "Oo,
lovely!" And they put him on the ground.

"Come on, Tigger," he called out. "It's easy."

But Tigger was holding on to the branch and saying to himself: "It's
all very well for Jumping Animals like Kangas, but it's quite different
for Swimming Animals like Tiggers." And he thought of himself floating
on his back down a river, or striking out from one island to another,
and he felt that that was really the life for a Tigger.

"Come along," called Christopher Robin. "You'll be all right."

"Just wait a moment," said Tigger nervously. "Small piece of bark in my
eye." And he moved slowly along his branch.

"Come on, it's easy!" squeaked Roo. And suddenly Tigger found how easy
it was.

"Ow!" he shouted as the tree flew past him.

"Look out!" cried Christopher Robin to the others.

There was a crash, and a tearing noise, and a confused heap of
everybody on the ground.

Christopher Robin and Pooh and Piglet picked themselves up first, and
then they picked Tigger up, and underneath everybody else was Eeyore.

"Oh, Eeyore!" cried Christopher Robin. "Are you hurt?" And he felt him
rather anxiously, and dusted him and helped him to stand up again.

Eeyore said nothing for a long time. And then he said: "Is Tigger
there?"

Tigger was there, feeling Bouncy again already.

"Yes," said Christopher Robin. "Tigger's here."

"Well, just thank him for me," said Eeyore.




                               CHAPTER V

                   IN WHICH _Rabbit Has a Busy Day,
       and We Learn What Christopher Robin Does in the Mornings_


It was going to be one of Rabbit's busy days. As soon as he woke up he
felt important, as if everything depended upon him. It was just the
day for Organizing Something, or for Writing a Notice Signed Rabbit,
or for Seeing What Everybody Else Thought About It. It was a perfect
morning for hurrying round to Pooh, and saying, "Very well, then, I'll
tell Piglet," and then going to Piglet, and saying, "Pooh thinks--but
perhaps I'd better see Owl first." It was a Captainish sort of day,
when everybody said, "Yes, Rabbit" and "No, Rabbit," and waited until
he had told them.

He came out of his house and sniffed the warm spring morning as he
wondered what he would do. Kanga's house was nearest, and at Kanga's
house was Roo, who said "Yes, Rabbit" and "No, Rabbit" almost better
than anybody else in the Forest; but there was another animal there
nowadays, the strange and Bouncy Tigger; and he was the sort of Tigger
who was always in front when you were showing him the way anywhere, and
was generally out of sight when at last you came to the place and said
proudly "Here we are!"

"No, not Kanga's," said Rabbit thoughtfully to himself, as he curled
his whiskers in the sun; and, to make quite sure that he wasn't going
there, he turned to the left and trotted off in the other direction,
which was the way to Christopher Robin's house.

"After all," said Rabbit to himself, "Christopher Robin depends on Me.
He's fond of Pooh and Piglet and Eeyore, and so am I, but they haven't
any Brain. Not to notice. And he respects Owl, because you can't help
respecting anybody who can spell TUESDAY, even if he doesn't spell it
right; but spelling isn't everything. There are days when spelling
Tuesday simply doesn't count. And Kanga is too busy looking after
Roo, and Roo is too young and Tigger is too bouncy to be any help, so
there's really nobody but Me, when you come to look at it. I'll go and
see if there's anything he wants doing, and then I'll do it for him.
It's just the day for doing things."

He trotted along happily, and by-and-by he crossed the stream and came
to the place where his friends-and-relations lived. There seemed to be
even more of them about than usual this morning, and having nodded to a
hedgehog or two, with whom he was too busy to shake hands, and having
said, "Good morning, good morning," importantly to some of the others,
and "Ah, there you are," kindly, to the smaller ones, he waved a paw at
them over his shoulder, and was gone; leaving such an air of excitement
and I-don't-know-what behind him, that several members of the Beetle
family, including Henry Rush, made their way at once to the Hundred
Acre Wood and began climbing trees, in the hope of getting to the top
before it happened, whatever it was, so that they might see it properly.

Rabbit hurried on by the edge of the Hundred Acre Wood, feeling more
important every minute, and soon he came to the tree where Christopher
Robin lived. He knocked at the door, and he called out once or twice,
and then he walked back a little way and put his paw up to keep the sun
out, and called to the top of the tree, and then he turned all round
and shouted "Hallo!" and "I say!" "It's Rabbit!"--but nothing happened.
Then he stopped and listened, and everything stopped and listened
with him, and the Forest was very lone and still and peaceful in the
sunshine, until suddenly a hundred miles above him a lark began to sing.

"Bother!" said Rabbit. "He's gone out."

He went back to the green front door, just to make sure, and he was
turning away, feeling that his morning had got all spoilt, when he saw
a piece of paper on the ground. And there was a pin in it, as if it had
fallen off the door.

"Ha!" said Rabbit, feeling quite happy again. "Another notice!"

This is what it said:

    GON OUT
    BACKSON
    BISY
    BACKSON.

    C. R.

"Ha!" said Rabbit again. "I must tell the others." And he hurried off
importantly.

The nearest house was Owl's, and to Owl's House in the Hundred Acre
Wood he made his way. He came to Owl's door, and he knocked and he
rang, and he rang and he knocked, and at last Owl's head came out and
said "Go away, I'm thinking--oh it's you?" which was how he always
began.

"Owl," said Rabbit shortly, "you and I have brains. The others have
fluff. If there is any thinking to be done in this Forest--and when I
say thinking I mean _thinking_--you and I must do it."

"Yes," said Owl. "I was."

"Read that."

Owl took Christopher Robin's notice from Rabbit and looked at it
nervously. He could spell his own name WOL, and he could spell
Tuesday so that you knew it wasn't Wednesday, and he could read quite
comfortably when you weren't looking over his shoulder and saying
"Well?" all the time, and he could----

"Well?" said Rabbit.

"Yes," said Owl, looking Wise and Thoughtful. "I see what you mean.
Undoubtedly."

"Well?"

"Exactly," said Owl. "Precisely." And he added, after a little thought,
"If you had not come to me, I should have come to you."

"Why?" asked Rabbit.

"For that very reason," said Owl, hoping that something helpful would
happen soon.

"Yesterday morning," said Rabbit solemnly, "I went to see Christopher
Robin. He was out. Pinned on his door was a notice."

"The same notice?"

"A different one. But the meaning was the same. It's very odd."

"Amazing," said Owl, looking at the notice again, and getting, just
for a moment, a curious sort of feeling that something had happened to
Christopher Robin's back. "What did you do?"

"Nothing."

"The best thing," said Owl wisely.

"Well?" said Rabbit again, as Owl knew he was going to.

"Exactly," said Owl.

For a little while he couldn't think of anything more; and then, all of
a sudden, he had an idea.

"Tell me, Rabbit," he said, "the _exact_ words of the first notice.
This is very important. Everything depends on this. The _exact_ words
of the _first_ notice."

"It was just the same as that one really."

Owl looked at him, and wondered whether to push him off the tree; but,
feeling that he could always do it afterwards, he tried once more to
find out what they were talking about.

"The exact words, please," he said, as if Rabbit hadn't spoken.

"It just said, 'Gon out. Backson.' Same as this, only this says 'Bisy
Backson' too."

Owl gave a great sigh of relief.

"Ah!" said Owl. "_Now_ we know where we are."

"Yes, but where's Christopher Robin?" said Rabbit. "That's the point."

Owl looked at the notice again. To one of his education the reading of
it was easy. "Gone out, Backson. Bisy, Backson"--just the sort of thing
you'd expect to see on a notice.

"It is quite clear what has happened, my dear Rabbit," he said.
"Christopher Robin has gone out somewhere with Backson. He and Backson
are busy together. Have you seen a Backson anywhere about in the Forest
lately?"

"I don't know," said Rabbit. "That's what I came to ask you. What are
they like?"

"Well," said Owl, "the Spotted or Herbaceous Backson is just a----"

"At least," he said, "it's really more of a----"

"Of course," he said, "it depends on the----"

"Well," said Owl, "the fact is," he said, "I don't know _what_ they're
like," said Owl frankly.

"Thank you," said Rabbit. And he hurried off to see Pooh.

Before he had gone very far he heard a noise. So he stopped and
listened. This was the noise.

                            NOISE, BY POOH

    Oh, the butterflies are flying,
    Now the winter days are dying,
    And the primroses are trying
        To be seen.

    And the turtle-doves are cooing,
    And the woods are up and doing,
    For the violets are blue-ing
        In the green.

    Oh, the honey-bees are gumming
    On their little wings, and humming
    That the summer, which is coming,
        Will be fun.

    And the cows are almost cooing,
    And the turtle-doves are mooing,
    Which is why a Pooh is poohing
        In the sun.

    For the spring is really springing;
    You can see a skylark singing,
    And the blue-bells, which are ringing,
        Can be heard.

    And the cuckoo isn't cooing,
    But he's cucking and he's ooing,
    And a Pooh is simply poohing
        Like a bird.

"Hallo, Pooh," said Rabbit.

"Hallo, Rabbit," said Pooh dreamily.

"Did you make that song up?"

"Well, I sort of made it up," said Pooh. "It isn't Brain," he went on
humbly, "because You Know Why, Rabbit; but it comes to me sometimes."

"Ah!" said Rabbit, who never let things come to him, but always went
and fetched them. "Well, the point is, have you seen a Spotted or
Herbaceous Backson in the Forest, at all?"

"No," said Pooh. "Not a--no," said Pooh. "I saw Tigger just now."

"That's no good."

"No," said Pooh. "I thought it wasn't."

"Have you seen Piglet?"

"Yes," said Pooh. "I suppose _that_ isn't any good either?" he asked
meekly.

"Well, it depends if he saw anything."

"He saw me," said Pooh.

Rabbit sat down on the ground next to Pooh and, feeling much less
important like that, stood up again.

"What it all comes to is this," he said. "_What does Christopher Robin
do in the morning nowadays?_"

"What sort of thing?"

"Well, can you tell me anything you've seen him do in the morning?
These last few days."

"Yes," said Pooh. "We had breakfast together yesterday. By the Pine
Trees. I'd made up a little basket, just a little, fair-sized basket,
an ordinary biggish sort of basket, full of----"

"Yes, yes," said Rabbit, "but I mean later than that. Have you seen him
between eleven and twelve?"

"Well," said Pooh, "at eleven o'clock--at eleven o'clock--well, at
eleven o'clock, you see, I generally get home about then. Because I
have One or Two Things to Do."

"Quarter past eleven, then?"

"Well----" said Pooh.

"Half past."

"Yes," said Pooh. "At half past--or perhaps later--I might see him."

And now that he did think of it, he began to remember that he _hadn't_
seen Christopher Robin about so much lately. Not in the mornings.
Afternoons, yes; evenings, yes; before breakfast, yes; just after
breakfast, yes. And then, perhaps, "See you again, Pooh," and off he'd
go.

"That's just it," said Rabbit, "Where?"

"Perhaps he's looking for something."

"What?" asked Rabbit.

"That's just what I was going to say," said Pooh. And then he added,
"Perhaps he's looking for a--for a----"

"A Spotted or Herbaceous Backson?"

"Yes," said Pooh. "One of those. In case it isn't."

Rabbit looked at him severely.

"I don't think you're helping," he said.

"No," said Pooh. "I do try," he added humbly.

Rabbit thanked him for trying, and said that he would now go and see
Eeyore, and Pooh could walk with him if he liked. But Pooh, who felt
another verse of his song coming on him, said he would wait for Piglet,
good-bye, Rabbit; so Rabbit went off.

But, as it happened, it was Rabbit who saw Piglet first. Piglet had got
up early that morning to pick himself a bunch of violets; and when he
had picked them and put them in a pot in the middle of his house, it
suddenly came over him that nobody had ever picked Eeyore a bunch of
violets, and the more he thought of this, the more he thought how sad
it was to be an Animal who had never had a bunch of violets picked for
him. So he hurried out again, saying to himself, "Eeyore, Violets," and
then "Violets, Eeyore," in case he forgot, because it was that sort of
day, and he picked a large bunch and trotted along, smelling them, and
feeling very happy, until he came to the place where Eeyore was.

"Oh, Eeyore," began Piglet a little nervously, because Eeyore was busy.

Eeyore put out a paw and waved him away.

"Tomorrow," said Eeyore. "Or the next day."

Piglet came a little closer to see what it was. Eeyore had three sticks
on the ground, and was looking at them. Two of the sticks were touching
at one end, but not at the other, and the third stick was laid across
them. Piglet thought that perhaps it was a Trap of some kind.

"Oh, Eeyore," he began again, "just----"

"Is that little Piglet?" said Eeyore, still looking hard at his sticks.

"Yes, Eeyore, and I----"

"Do you know what this is?"

"No," said Piglet.

"It's an A."

"Oh," said Piglet.

"Not O, A," said Eeyore severely. "Can't you _hear_, or do you think
you have more education than Christopher Robin?"

"Yes," said Piglet. "No," said Piglet very quickly. And he came closer
still.

"Christopher Robin said it was an A, and an A it is--until somebody
treads on me," Eeyore added sternly.

Piglet jumped backwards hurriedly, and smelt at his violets.

"Do you know what A means, little Piglet?"

"No, Eeyore, I don't."

"It means Learning, it means Education, it means all the things that
you and Pooh haven't got. That's what A means."

"Oh," said Piglet again. "I mean, does it?" he explained quickly.

"I'm telling you. People come and go in this Forest, and they say,
'It's only Eeyore, so it doesn't count.' They walk to and fro saying
'Ha ha!' But do they know anything about A? They don't. It's just three
sticks to _them_. But to the Educated--mark this, little Piglet--to the
Educated, not meaning Poohs and Piglets, it's a great and glorious A.
Not," he added, "just something that anybody can come and _breathe_ on."

Piglet stepped back nervously, and looked round for help.

"Here's Rabbit," he said gladly. "Hallo, Rabbit."

Rabbit came up importantly, nodded to Piglet, and said, "Ah, Eeyore,"
in the voice of one who would be saying "Good-bye" in about two more
minutes.

"There's just one thing I wanted to ask you, Eeyore. What happens to
Christopher Robin in the mornings nowadays?"

"What's this that I'm looking at?" said Eeyore, still looking at it.

"Three sticks," said Rabbit promptly.

"You see?" said Eeyore to Piglet. He turned to Rabbit. "I will now
answer your question," he said solemnly.

"Thank you," said Rabbit.

"What does Christopher Robin do in the mornings? He learns. He becomes
Educated. He instigorates--I _think_ that is the word he mentioned, but
I may be referring to something else--he instigorates Knowledge. In my
small way I also, if I have the word right, am--am doing what he does.
That, for instance, is----"

"An A," said Rabbit, "but not a very good one. Well, I must get back
and tell the others."

Eeyore looked at his sticks and then he looked at Piglet.

"What did Rabbit say it was?" he asked.

"An A," said Piglet.

"Did you tell him?"

"No, Eeyore, I didn't. I expect he just knew."

"He _knew_? You mean this A thing is a thing _Rabbit_ knew?"

"Yes, Eeyore. He's clever, Rabbit is."

"Clever!" said Eeyore scornfully, putting a foot heavily on his three
sticks. "Education!" said Eeyore bitterly, jumping on his six sticks.
"What is Learning?" asked Eeyore as he kicked his twelve sticks into
the air. "A thing _Rabbit_ knows! Ha!"

"I think----" began Piglet nervously.

"Don't," said Eeyore.

"I think _Violets_ are rather nice," said Piglet. And he laid his bunch
in front of Eeyore and scampered off.

Next morning the notice on Christopher Robin's door said:

    GONE OUT
    BACK SOON

    C. R.

Which is why all the animals in the Forest--except, of course, the
Spotted and Herbaceous Backson--now know what Christopher Robin does in
the mornings.




                              CHAPTER VI

        IN WHICH _Pooh Invents a New Game and Eeyore Joins In_


By the time it came to the edge of the Forest the stream had grown up,
so that it was almost a river, and, being grown-up, it did not run
and jump and sparkle along as it used to do when it was younger, but
moved more slowly. For it knew now where it was going, and it said to
itself, "There is no hurry. We shall get there some day." But all the
little streams higher up in the Forest went this way and that, quickly,
eagerly, having so much to find out before it was too late.

There was a broad track, almost as broad as a road, leading from the
Outland to the Forest, but before it could come to the Forest, it had
to cross this river. So, where it crossed, there was a wooden bridge,
almost as broad as a road, with wooden rails on each side of it.
Christopher Robin could just get his chin to the top rail, if he wanted
to, but it was more fun to stand on the bottom rail, so that he could
lean right over, and watch the river slipping slowly away beneath him.
Pooh could get his chin on to the bottom rail if he wanted to, but it
was more fun to lie down and get his head under it, and watch the river
slipping slowly away beneath him. And this was the only way in which
Piglet and Roo could watch the river at all, because they were too
small to reach the bottom rail. So they would lie down and watch it ...
and it slipped away very slowly, being in no hurry to get there.

One day, when Pooh was walking towards this bridge, he was trying to
make up a piece of poetry about fir-cones, because there they were,
lying about on each side of him, and he felt singy. So he picked a
fir-cone up, and looked at it, and said to himself, "This is a very
good fir-cone, and something ought to rhyme to it." But he couldn't
think of anything. And then this came into his head suddenly:

    Here is a myst'ry
    About a little fir-tree.
    Owl says it's _his_ tree,
    And Kanga says it's _her_ tree.

"Which doesn't make sense," said Pooh, "because Kanga doesn't live in a
tree."

He had just come to the bridge; and not looking where he was going, he
tripped over something, and the fir-cone jerked out of his paw into the
river.

"Bother," said Pooh, as it floated slowly under the bridge, and he
went back to get another fir-cone which had a rhyme to it. But then he
thought that he would just look at the river instead, because it was a
peaceful sort of day, so he lay down and looked at it, and it slipped
slowly away beneath him ... and suddenly, there was his fir-cone
slipping away too.

"That's funny," said Pooh. "I dropped it on the other side," said Pooh,
"and it came out on this side! I wonder if it would do it again?" And
he went back for some more fir-cones.

It did. It kept on doing it. Then he dropped two in at once, and leant
over the bridge to see which of them would come out first; and one of
them did; but as they were both the same size, he didn't know if it
was the one which he wanted to win, or the other one. So the next time
he dropped one big one and one little one, and the big one came out
first, which was what he had said it would do, and the little one came
out last, which was what he had said it would do, so he had won twice
... and when he went home for tea, he had won thirty-six and lost
twenty-eight, which meant that he was--that he had--well, you take
twenty-eight from thirty-six, and _that's_ what he was. Instead of the
other way round.

And that was the beginning of the game called Poohsticks, which Pooh
invented, and which he and his friends used to play on the edge of the
Forest. But they played with sticks instead of fir-cones, because they
were easier to mark.

Now one day Pooh and Piglet and Rabbit and Roo were all playing
Poohsticks together. They had dropped their sticks in when Rabbit said
"Go!" and then they had hurried across to the other side of the bridge,
and now they were all leaning over the edge, waiting to see whose stick
would come out first. But it was a long time coming, because the river
was very lazy that day, and hardly seemed to mind if it didn't ever get
there at all.

"I can see mine!" cried Roo. "No, I can't, it's something else. Can you
see yours, Piglet? I thought I could see mine, but I couldn't. There it
is! No, it isn't. Can you see yours, Pooh?"

"No," said Pooh.

"I expect my stick's stuck," said Roo. "Rabbit, my stick's stuck. Is
your stick stuck, Piglet?"

"They always take longer than you think," said Rabbit.

"How long do you _think_ they'll take?" asked Roo.

"I can see yours, Piglet," said Pooh suddenly.

"Mine's a sort of greyish one," said Piglet, not daring to lean too far
over in case he fell in.

"Yes, that's what I can see. It's coming over on to my side."

Rabbit leant over further than ever, looking for his, and Roo wriggled
up and down, calling out "Come on, stick! Stick, stick, stick!" and
Piglet got very excited because his was the only one which had been
seen, and that meant that he was winning.

"It's coming!" said Pooh.

"Are you _sure_ it's mine?" squeaked Piglet excitedly.

"Yes, because it's grey. A big grey one. Here it comes! A
very--big--grey----Oh, no, it isn't, it's Eeyore."

And out floated Eeyore.

"Eeyore!" cried everybody.

Looking very calm, very dignified, with his legs in the air, came
Eeyore from beneath the bridge.

"It's Eeyore!" cried Roo, terribly excited.

"Is that so?" said Eeyore, getting caught up by a little eddy, and
turning slowly round three times. "I wondered."

"I didn't know you were playing," said Roo.

"I'm not," said Eeyore.

"Eeyore, what _are_ you doing there?" said Rabbit.

"I'll give you three guesses, Rabbit. Digging holes in the ground?
Wrong. Leaping from branch to branch of a young oak tree? Wrong.
Waiting for somebody to help me out of the river? Right. Give Rabbit
time, and he'll always get the answer."

"But, Eeyore," said Pooh in distress, "what can we--I mean, how shall
we--do you think if we----"

"Yes," said Eeyore. "One of those would be just the thing. Thank you,
Pooh."

"He's going _round_ and _round_," said Roo, much impressed.

"And why not?" said Eeyore coldly.

"I can swim too," said Roo proudly.

"Not round and round," said Eeyore. "It's much more difficult. I didn't
want to come swimming at all today," he went on, revolving slowly. "But
if, when in, I decide to practise a slight circular movement from right
to left--or perhaps I should say," he added, as he got into another
eddy, "from left to right, just as it happens to occur to me, it is
nobody's business but my own."

There was a moment's silence while everybody thought.

"I've got a sort of idea," said Pooh at last, "but I don't suppose it's
a very good one."

"I don't suppose it is either," said Eeyore.

"Go on, Pooh," said Rabbit. "Let's have it."

"Well, if we all threw stones and things into the river on _one_ side
of Eeyore, the stones would make waves, and the waves would wash him to
the other side."

"That's a very good idea," said Rabbit, and Pooh looked happy again.

"Very," said Eeyore. "When I want to be washed, Pooh, I'll let you
know."

"Supposing we hit him by mistake?" said Piglet anxiously.

"Or supposing you missed him by mistake," said Eeyore. "Think of all
the possibilities, Piglet, before you settle down to enjoy yourselves."

But Pooh had got the biggest stone he could carry, and was leaning over
the bridge, holding it in his paws.

"I'm not throwing it, I'm dropping it, Eeyore," he explained. "And then
I can't miss--I mean I can't hit you. _Could_ you stop turning round
for a moment, because it muddles me rather?"

"No," said Eeyore. "I _like_ turning round."

Rabbit began to feel that it was time he took command.

"Now, Pooh," he said, "when I say 'Now!' you can drop it. Eeyore, when
I say 'Now!' Pooh will drop his stone."

"Thank you very much, Rabbit, but I expect I shall know."

"Are you ready, Pooh? Piglet, give Pooh a little more room. Get back a
bit there, Roo. Are you ready?"

"No," said Eeyore.

"_Now!_" said Rabbit.

Pooh dropped his stone. There was a loud splash, and Eeyore
disappeared....

It was an anxious moment for the watchers on the bridge. They looked
and looked ... and even the sight of Piglet's stick coming out a little
in front of Rabbit's didn't cheer them up as much as you would have
expected. And then, just as Pooh was beginning to think that he must
have chosen the wrong stone or the wrong river or the wrong day for his
Idea, something grey showed for a moment by the river bank ... and it
got slowly bigger and bigger ... and at last it was Eeyore coming out.

With a shout they rushed off the bridge, and pushed and pulled at him;
and soon he was standing among them again on dry land.

"Oh, Eeyore, you _are_ wet!" said Piglet, feeling him.

Eeyore shook himself, and asked somebody to explain to Piglet what
happened when you had been inside a river for quite a long time.

"Well done, Pooh," said Rabbit kindly. "That was a good idea of ours."

"What was?" asked Eeyore.

"Hooshing you to the bank like that."

"_Hooshing_ me?" said Eeyore in surprise. "Hooshing _me_? You didn't
think I was _hooshed_, did you? I dived. Pooh dropped a large stone on
me, and so as not to be struck heavily on the chest, I dived and swam
to the bank."

"You didn't really," whispered Piglet to Pooh, so as to comfort him.

"I didn't _think_ I did," said Pooh anxiously.

"It's just Eeyore," said Piglet. "_I_ thought your Idea was a very good
Idea."

Pooh began to feel a little more comfortable, because when you are a
Bear of Very Little Brain, and you Think of Things, you find sometimes
that a Thing which seemed very Thingish inside you is quite different
when it gets out into the open and has other people looking at it. And,
anyhow, Eeyore _was_ in the river, and now he _wasn't_, so he hadn't
done any harm.

"How did you fall in, Eeyore?" asked Rabbit, as he dried him with
Piglet's handkerchief.

"I didn't," said Eeyore.

"But how----"

"I was BOUNCED," said Eeyore.

"Oo," said Roo excitedly, "did somebody push you?"

"Somebody BOUNCED me. I was just thinking by the side of the
river--thinking, if any of you know what that means, when I received a
loud BOUNCE."

"Oh, Eeyore!" said everybody.

"Are you sure you didn't slip?" asked Rabbit wisely.

"Of course I slipped. If you're standing on the slippery bank of a
river, and somebody BOUNCES you loudly from behind, you slip. What did
you think I did?"

"But who did it?" asked Roo.

Eeyore didn't answer.

"I expect it was Tigger," said Piglet nervously.

"But, Eeyore," said Pooh, "was it a Joke, or an Accident? I mean----"

"I didn't stop to ask, Pooh. Even at the very bottom of the river I
didn't stop to say to myself, '_Is_ this a Hearty Joke, or is it the
Merest Accident?' I just floated to the surface, and said to myself,
'It's wet.' If you know what I mean."

"And where was Tigger?" asked Rabbit.

Before Eeyore could answer, there was a loud noise behind them, and
through the hedge came Tigger himself.

"Hallo, everybody," said Tigger cheerfully.

"Hallo, Tigger," said Roo.

Rabbit became very important suddenly.

"Tigger," he said solemnly, "what happened just now?"

"Just when?" said Tigger a little uncomfortably.

"When you bounced Eeyore into the river."

"I didn't bounce him."

"You bounced me," said Eeyore gruffly.

"I didn't really. I had a cough, and I happened to be behind Eeyore,
and I said '_Grrrr--oppp--ptschschschz_.'"

"Why?" said Rabbit, helping Piglet up, and dusting him. "It's all
right, Piglet."

"It took me by surprise," said Piglet nervously.

"That's what I call bouncing," said Eeyore. "Taking people by surprise.
Very unpleasant habit. I don't mind Tigger being in the Forest," he
went on, "because it's a large Forest, and there's plenty of room to
bounce in it. But I don't see why he should come into _my_ little
corner of it, and bounce there. It isn't as if there was anything very
wonderful about my little corner. Of course for people who like cold,
wet, ugly bits it _is_ something rather special, but otherwise it's
just a corner, and if anybody feels bouncy----"

"I didn't bounce, I coughed," said Tigger crossly.

"Bouncy or coffy, it's all the same at the bottom of the river."

"Well," said Rabbit, "all I can say is--well, here's Christopher Robin,
so _he_ can say it."

Christopher Robin came down from the Forest to the bridge, feeling
all sunny and careless, and just as if twice nineteen didn't matter a
bit, as it didn't on such a happy afternoon, and he thought that if he
stood on the bottom rail of the bridge, and leant over, and watched
the river slipping slowly away beneath him, then he would suddenly
know everything that there was to be known, and he would be able to
tell Pooh, who wasn't quite sure about some of it. But when he got to
the bridge and saw all the animals there, then he knew that it wasn't
that kind of afternoon, but the other kind, when you wanted to _do_
something.

"It's like this, Christopher Robin," began Rabbit. "Tigger----"

"No, I didn't," said Tigger.

"Well, anyhow, there I was," said Eeyore.

"But I don't think he meant to," said Pooh.

"He just _is_ bouncy," said Piglet, "and he can't help it."

"Try bouncing _me_, Tigger," said Roo eagerly. "Eeyore, Tigger's going
to try _me_. Piglet, do you think----"

"Yes, yes," said Rabbit, "we don't all want to speak at once. The point
is, what does Christopher Robin think about it?"

"All I did was I coughed," said Tigger.

"He bounced," said Eeyore.

"Well, I sort of boffed," said Tigger.

"Hush!" said Rabbit, holding up his paw. "What does Christopher Robin
think about it all? That's the point."

"Well," said Christopher Robin, not quite sure what it was all about,
"_I_ think----"

"Yes?" said everybody.

"_I_ think we all ought to play Poohsticks."

So they did. And Eeyore, who had never played it before, won more times
than anybody else; and Roo fell in twice, the first time by accident
and the second time on purpose, because he suddenly saw Kanga coming
from the Forest, and he knew he'd have to go to bed anyhow. So then
Rabbit said he'd go with them; and Tigger and Eeyore went off together,
because Eeyore wanted to tell Tigger How to Win at Poohsticks, which
you do by letting your stick drop in a twitchy sort of way, if you
understand what I mean, Tigger; and Christopher Robin and Pooh and
Piglet were left on the bridge by themselves.

For a long time they looked at the river beneath them, saying nothing,
and the river said nothing too, for it felt very quiet and peaceful on
this summer afternoon.

"Tigger is all right _really_," said Piglet lazily.

"Of course he is," said Christopher Robin.

"Everybody is _really_," said Pooh. "That's what _I_ think," said Pooh.
"But I don't suppose I'm right," he said.

"Of course you are," said Christopher Robin.




                              CHAPTER VII

                    IN WHICH _Tigger ls Unbounced_


One day Rabbit and Piglet were sitting outside Pooh's front door
listening to Rabbit, and Pooh was sitting with them. It was a drowsy
summer afternoon, and the Forest was full of gentle sounds, which all
seemed to be saying to Pooh, "Don't listen to Rabbit, listen to me."
So he got into a comfortable position for not listening to Rabbit, and
from time to time he opened his eyes to say "Ah!" and then closed them
again to say "True," and from time to time Rabbit said, "You see what I
mean, Piglet" very earnestly, and Piglet nodded earnestly to show that
he did.

"In fact," said Rabbit, coming to the end of it at last, "Tigger's
getting so Bouncy nowadays that it's time we taught him a lesson. Don't
you think so, Piglet?"

Piglet said that Tigger _was_ very Bouncy, and that if they could think
of a way of unbouncing him, it would be a Very Good Idea.

"Just what I feel," said Rabbit. "What do _you_ say, Pooh?"

Pooh opened his eyes with a jerk and said, "Extremely."

"Extremely what?" asked Rabbit.

"What you were saying," said Pooh. "Undoubtably."

Piglet gave Pooh a stiffening sort of nudge, and Pooh, who felt more
and more that he was somewhere else, got up slowly and began to look
for himself.

"But how shall we do it?" asked Piglet. "What sort of a lesson, Rabbit?"

"That's the point," said Rabbit.

The word "lesson" came back to Pooh as one he had heard before
somewhere.

"There's a thing called Twy-stymes," he said. "Christopher Robin tried
to teach it to me once, but it didn't."

"What didn't?" said Rabbit.

"Didn't what?" said Piglet.

Pooh shook his head.

"I don't know," he said. "It just didn't. What are we talking about?"

"Pooh," said Piglet reproachfully, "haven't you been listening to what
Rabbit was saying?"

"I listened, but I had a small piece of fluff in my ear. Could you say
it again, please, Rabbit?"

Rabbit never minded saying things again, so he asked where he should
begin from; and when Pooh had said from the moment when the fluff got
in his ear, and Rabbit had asked when that was, and Pooh had said he
didn't know because he hadn't heard properly, Piglet settled it all by
saying that what they were trying to do was, they were just trying to
think of a way to get the bounces out of Tigger, because however much
you liked him, you couldn't deny it, he _did_ bounce.

"Oh, I see," said Pooh.

"There's too much of him," said Rabbit, "that's what it comes to."

Pooh tried to think, and all he could think of was something which
didn't help at all. So he hummed it very quietly to himself.

    If Rabbit
    Was bigger
    And fatter
    And stronger,
    Or bigger
    Than Tigger,
    If Tigger was smaller,
    Then Tigger's bad habit
    Of bouncing at Rabbit
    Would matter
    No longer,
    If Rabbit
    Was taller.

"What was Pooh saying?" asked Rabbit. "Any good?"

"No," said Pooh sadly. "No good."

"Well, I've got an idea," said Rabbit, "and here it is. We take Tigger
for a long explore, somewhere where he's never been, and we lose him
there, and next morning we find him again, and--mark my words--he'll be
a different Tigger altogether."

"Why?" said Pooh.

"Because he'll be a Humble Tigger. Because he'll be a Sad
Tigger, a Melancholy Tigger, a Small and Sorry Tigger, an
Oh-Rabbit-I-_am_-glad-to-see-you Tigger. That's why."

"Will he be glad to see me and Piglet, too?"

"Of course."

"That's good," said Pooh.

"I should hate him to go _on_ being Sad," said Piglet doubtfully.

"Tiggers never go on being Sad," explained Rabbit. "They get over it
with Astonishing Rapidity. I asked Owl, just to make sure, and he said
that that's what they always get over it with. But if we can make
Tigger feel Small and Sad just for five minutes, we shall have done a
good deed."

"Would Christopher Robin think so?" asked Piglet.

"Yes," said Rabbit. "He'd say 'You've done a good deed, Piglet. I would
have done it myself, only I happened to be doing something else. Thank
you, Piglet.' And Pooh, of course."

Piglet felt very glad about this, and he saw at once that what they
were going to do to Tigger was a good thing to do, and as Pooh and
Rabbit were doing it with him, it was a thing which even a Very Small
Animal could wake up in the morning and be comfortable about doing. So
the only question was, where should they lose Tigger?

"We'll take him to the North Pole," said Rabbit, "because it was a very
long explore finding it, so it will be a very long explore for Tigger
unfinding it again."

It was now Pooh's turn to feel very glad, because it was he who had
first found the North Pole, and when they got there, Tigger would see a
notice which said, "Discovered by Pooh, Pooh found it," and then Tigger
would know, which perhaps he didn't know, the sort of Bear Pooh was.
_That_ sort of Bear.

So it was arranged that they should start next morning, and that
Rabbit, who lived near Kanga and Roo and Tigger, should now go home
and ask Tigger what he was doing tomorrow, because if he wasn't doing
anything, what about coming for an explore and getting Pooh and Piglet
to come too? And if Tigger said "Yes" that would be all right, and if
he said "No"----

"He won't," said Rabbit. "Leave it to me." And he went off busily.

The next day was quite a different day. Instead of being hot and sunny,
it was cold and misty. Pooh didn't mind for himself, but when he
thought of all the honey the bees wouldn't be making, a cold and misty
day always made him feel sorry for them. He said so to Piglet when
Piglet came to fetch him, and Piglet said that he wasn't thinking of
that so much, but of how cold and miserable it would be being lost all
day and night on the top of the Forest. But when he and Pooh had got
to Rabbit's house, Rabbit said it was just the day for them, because
Tigger always bounced on ahead of everybody, and as soon as he got out
of sight, they would hurry away in the other direction, and he would
never see them again.

"Not never?" said Piglet.

"Well, not until we find him again, Piglet. Tomorrow, or whenever it
is. Come on. He's waiting for us."

When they got to Kanga's house, they found that Roo was waiting too,
being a great friend of Tigger's, which made it Awkward; but Rabbit
whispered "Leave this to me" behind his paw to Pooh, and went up to
Kanga.

"I don't think Roo had better come," he said. "Not today."

"Why not?" said Roo, who wasn't supposed to be listening.

"Nasty cold day," said Rabbit, shaking his head. "And you were coughing
this morning."

"How do you know?" asked Roo indignantly.

"Oh, Roo, you never told me," said Kanga reproachfully.

"It was a Biscuit Cough," said Roo, "not one you tell about."

"I think not today, dear. Another day."

"Tomorrow?" said Roo hopefully.

"We'll see," said Kanga.

"You're always seeing, and nothing ever happens," said Roo sadly.

"Nobody could see on a day like this, Roo," said Rabbit. "I don't
expect we shall get very far, and then this afternoon we'll all--we'll
all--we'll--ah, Tigger, there you are. Come on. Good-bye, Roo! This
afternoon we'll--come on, Pooh! All ready? That's right. Come on."

So they went. At first Pooh and Rabbit and Piglet walked together, and
Tigger ran round them in circles, and then, when the path got narrower,
Rabbit, Piglet and Pooh walked one after another, and Tigger ran round
them in oblongs, and by-and-by, when the gorse got very prickly on
each side of the path, Tigger ran up and down in front of them, and
sometimes he bounced into Rabbit and sometimes he didn't. And as they
got higher, the mist got thicker, so that Tigger kept disappearing, and
then when you thought he wasn't there, there he was again, saying "I
say, come on," and before you could say anything, there he wasn't.

Rabbit turned round and nudged Piglet.

"The next time," he said. "Tell Pooh."

"The next time," said Piglet to Pooh.

"The next what?" said Pooh to Piglet.

Tigger appeared suddenly, bounced into Rabbit, and disappeared again.
"Now!" said Rabbit. He jumped into a hollow by the side of the path,
and Pooh and Piglet jumped after him. They crouched in the bracken,
listening. The Forest was very silent when you stopped and listened to
it. They could see nothing and hear nothing.

"H'sh!" said Rabbit.

"I am," said Pooh.

There was a pattering noise ... then silence again.

"Hallo!" said Tigger, and he sounded so close suddenly that Piglet
would have jumped if Pooh hadn't accidentally been sitting on most of
him.

"Where are you?" called Tigger.

Rabbit nudged Pooh, and Pooh looked about for Piglet to nudge, but
couldn't find him, and Piglet went on breathing wet bracken as quietly
as he could, and felt very brave and excited.

"That's funny," said Tigger.

There was a moment's silence, and then they heard him pattering off
again. For a little longer they waited, until the Forest had become
so still that it almost frightened them, and then Rabbit got up and
stretched himself.

"Well?" he whispered proudly. "There we are! Just as I said."

"I've been thinking," said Pooh, "and I think----"

"No," said Rabbit. "Don't. Run. Come on." And they all hurried off,
Rabbit leading the way.

"Now," said Rabbit, after they had gone a little way, "we can talk.
What were you going to say, Pooh?"

"Nothing much. Why are we going along here?"

"Because it's the way home."

"Oh!" said Pooh.

"I _think_ it's more to the right," said Piglet nervously. "What do
_you_ think, Pooh?"

Pooh looked at his two paws. He knew that one of them was the right,
and he knew that when you had decided which one of them was the right,
then the other one was the left, but he never could remember how to
begin.

"Well," he said slowly----

"Come on," said Rabbit. "I know it's this way."

They went on. Ten minutes later they stopped again.

"It's very silly," said Rabbit, "but just for the moment I----Ah, of
course. Come on...."

"Here we are," said Rabbit ten minutes later. "No, we're not...."

"Now," said Rabbit ten minutes later, "I think we ought to be
getting--or are we a little bit more to the right than I thought?..."

"It's a funny thing," said Rabbit ten minutes later, "how everything
looks the same in a mist. Have you noticed it, Pooh?"

Pooh said that he had.

"Lucky we know the Forest so well, or we might get lost," said Rabbit
half an hour later, and he gave the careless laugh which you give when
you know the Forest so well that you can't get lost.

Piglet sidled up to Pooh from behind.

"Pooh!" he whispered.

"Yes, Piglet?"

"Nothing," said Piglet, taking Pooh's paw. "I just wanted to be sure of
you."

When Tigger had finished waiting for the others to catch him up, and
they hadn't, and when he had got tired of having nobody to say, "I say,
come on" to, he thought he would go home. So he trotted back; and the
first thing Kanga said when she saw him was "There's a good Tigger.
You're just in time for your Strengthening Medicine," and she poured it
out for him. Roo said proudly, "I've _had_ mine," and Tigger swallowed
his and said, "So have I," and then he and Roo pushed each other about
in a friendly way, and Tigger accidentally knocked over one or two
chairs by accident, and Roo accidentally knocked over one on purpose,
and Kanga said, "Now then, run along."

"Where shall we run along to?" asked Roo.

"You can go and collect some fir-cones for me," said Kanga, giving them
a basket.

So they went to the Six Pine Trees, and threw fir-cones at each other
until they had forgotten what they came for, and they left the basket
under the trees and went back to dinner. And it was just as they were
finishing dinner that Christopher Robin put his head in at the door.

"Where's Pooh?" he asked.

"Tigger dear, where's Pooh?" said Kanga. Tigger explained what had
happened at the same time that Roo was explaining about his Biscuit
Cough and Kanga was telling them not both to talk at once, so it was
some time before Christopher Robin guessed that Pooh and Piglet and
Rabbit were all lost in the mist on the top of the Forest.

"It's a funny thing about Tiggers," whispered Tigger to Roo, "how
Tiggers _never_ get lost."

"Why don't they, Tigger?"

"They just don't," explained Tigger. "That's how it is."

"Well," said Christopher Robin, "we shall have to go and find them,
that's all. Come on, Tigger."

"I shall have to go and find them," explained Tigger to Roo.

"May I find them too?" asked Roo eagerly.

"I think not today, dear," said Kanga. "Another day."

"Well, if they're lost tomorrow, may I find them?"

"We'll see," said Kanga, and Roo, who knew what _that_ meant, went
into a corner, and practised jumping out at himself, partly because he
wanted to practise this, and partly because he didn't want Christopher
Robin and Tigger to think that he minded when they went off without him.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The fact is," said Rabbit, "we've missed our way somehow."

They were having a rest in a small sand-pit on the top of the Forest.
Pooh was getting rather tired of that sand-pit, and suspected it of
following them about, because whichever direction they started in, they
always ended up at it, and each time, as it came through the mist at
them, Rabbit said triumphantly, "Now I know where we are!" and Pooh
said sadly, "So do I," and Piglet said nothing. He had tried to think
of something to say, but the only thing he could think of was, "Help,
help!" and it seemed silly to say that, when he had Pooh and Rabbit
with him.

"Well," said Rabbit, after a long silence in which nobody thanked him
for the nice walk they were having, "we'd better get on, I suppose.
Which way shall we try?"

"How would it be," said Pooh slowly, "if, as soon as we're out of sight
of this Pit, we try to find it again?"

"What's the good of that?" said Rabbit.

"Well," said Pooh, "we keep looking for Home and not finding it, so I
thought that if we looked for this Pit, we'd be sure not to find it,
which would be a Good Thing, because then we might find something that
we _weren't_ looking for, which might be just what we _were_ looking
for, really."

"I don't see much sense in that," said Rabbit.

"No," said Pooh humbly, "there isn't. But there was _going_ to be when
I began it. It's just that something happened to it on the way."

"If I walked away from this Pit, and then walked back to it, of
_course_ I should find it."

"Well, I thought perhaps you wouldn't," said Pooh. "I just thought."

"Try," said Piglet suddenly. "We'll wait here for you."

Rabbit gave a laugh to show how silly Piglet was, and walked into the
mist. After he had gone a hundred yards, he turned and walked back
again ... and after Pooh and Piglet had waited twenty minutes for him,
Pooh got up.

"I just thought," said Pooh. "Now then, Piglet, let's go home."

"But, Pooh," cried Piglet, all excited, "do you know the way?"

"No," said Pooh. "But there are twelve pots of honey in my cupboard,
and they've been calling to me for hours. I couldn't hear them properly
before, because Rabbit _would_ talk, but if nobody says anything except
those twelve pots, I _think_, Piglet, I shall know where they're
calling from. Come on."

They walked off together; and for a long time Piglet said nothing, so
as not to interrupt the pots; and then suddenly he made a squeaky noise
... and an oo-noise ... because now he began to know where he was; but
he still didn't dare to say so out loud, in case he wasn't. And just
when he was getting so sure of himself that it didn't matter whether
the pots went on calling or not, there was a shout from in front of
them, and out of the mist came Christopher Robin.

"Oh, there you are," said Christopher Robin carelessly, trying to
pretend that he hadn't been Anxious.

"Here we are," said Pooh.

"Where's Rabbit?"

"I don't know," said Pooh.

"Oh--well, I expect Tigger will find him. He's sort of looking for you
all."

"Well," said Pooh, "I've got to go home for something, and so has
Piglet, because we haven't had it yet, and----"

"I'll come and watch you," said Christopher Robin.

So he went home with Pooh, and watched him for quite a long time ...
and all the time he was watching, Tigger was tearing round the Forest
making loud yapping noises for Rabbit. And at last a very Small and
Sorry Rabbit heard him. And the Small and Sorry Rabbit rushed through
the mist at the noise, and it suddenly turned into Tigger; a Friendly
Tigger, a Grand Tigger, a Large and Helpful Tigger, a Tigger who
bounced, if he bounced at all, in just the beautiful way a Tigger
ought to bounce.

"Oh, Tigger, I _am_ glad to see you," cried Rabbit.




                             CHAPTER VIII

               IN WHICH _Piglet Does a Very Grand Thing_


Half way between Pooh's house and Piglet's house was a Thoughtful Spot
where they met sometimes when they had decided to go and see each
other, and as it was warm and out of the wind they would sit down there
for a little and wonder what they would do now that they _had_ seen
each other. One day when they had decided not to do anything, Pooh made
up a verse about it, so that everybody should know what the place was
for.

    This warm and sunny Spot
      Belongs to Pooh.
    And here he wonders what
      He's going to do.
    Oh, bother, I forgot--
      It's Piglet's too.

Now one autumn morning when the wind had blown all the leaves off the
trees in the night, and was trying to blow the branches off, Pooh and
Piglet were sitting in the Thoughtful Spot and wondering.

"What _I_ think," said Pooh, "is I think we'll go to Pooh Corner and
see Eeyore, because perhaps his house has been blown down, and perhaps
he'd like us to build it again."

"What _I_ think," said Piglet, "is I think we'll go and see Christopher
Robin, only he won't be there, so we can't."

"Let's go and see _everybody_," said Pooh. "Because when you've been
walking in the wind for miles, and you suddenly go into somebody's
house, and he says, 'Hallo, Pooh, you're just in time for a little
smackerel of something,' and you are, then it's what I call a Friendly
Day."

Piglet thought that they ought to have a Reason for going to see
everybody, like Looking for Small or Organizing an Expotition, if Pooh
could think of something.

Pooh could.

"We'll go because it's Thursday," he said, "and we'll go to wish
everybody a Very Happy Thursday. Come on, Piglet."

They got up; and when Piglet had sat down again, because he didn't
know the wind was so strong, and had been helped up by Pooh, they
started off. They went to Pooh's house first, and luckily Pooh was at
home just as they got there, so he asked them in, and they had some,
and then they went on to Kanga's house, holding on to each other, and
shouting "Isn't it?" and "What?" and "I can't hear." By the time they
got to Kanga's house they were so buffeted that they stayed to lunch.
Just at first it seemed rather cold outside afterwards, so they pushed
on to Rabbit's as quickly as they could.

"We've come to wish you a Very Happy Thursday," said Pooh, when he had
gone in and out once or twice just to make sure that he _could_ get out
again.

"Why, what's going to happen on Thursday?" asked Rabbit, and when Pooh
had explained, and Rabbit, whose life was made up of Important Things,
said, "Oh, I thought you'd really come about something," they sat down
for a little ... and by-and-by Pooh and Piglet went on again. The wind
was behind them now, so they didn't have to shout.

"Rabbit's clever," said Pooh thoughtfully.

"Yes," said Piglet, "Rabbit's clever."

"And he has Brain."

"Yes," said Piglet, "Rabbit has Brain."

There was a long silence.

"I suppose," said Pooh, "that that's why he never understands anything."

Christopher Robin was at home by this time, because it was the
afternoon, and he was so glad to see them that they stayed there until
very nearly tea-time, and then they had a Very Nearly tea, which is one
you forget about afterwards, and hurried on to Pooh Corner, so as to
see Eeyore before it was too late to have a Proper Tea with Owl.

"Hallo, Eeyore," they called out cheerfully.

"Ah!" said Eeyore. "Lost your way?"

"We just came to see you," said Piglet. "And to see how your house was.
Look, Pooh, it's still standing!"

"I know," said Eeyore. "Very odd. Somebody ought to have come down and
pushed it over."

"We wondered whether the wind would blow it down," said Pooh.

"Ah, that's why nobody's bothered, I suppose. I thought perhaps they'd
forgotten."

"Well, we're very glad to see you, Eeyore, and now we're going on to
see Owl."

"That's right. You'll like Owl. He flew past a day or two ago and
noticed me. He didn't actually say anything, mind you, but he knew it
was me. Very friendly of him, I thought. Encouraging."

Pooh and Piglet shuffled about a little and said, "Well, good-bye,
Eeyore" as lingeringly as they could, but they had a long way to go,
and wanted to be getting on.

"Good-bye," said Eeyore. "Mind you don't get blown away, little
Piglet. You'd be missed. People would say 'Where's little Piglet been
blown to?'--really wanting to know. Well, good-bye. And thank you for
happening to pass me."

"Good-bye," said Pooh and Piglet for the last time, and they pushed on
to Owl's house.

The wind was against them now, and Piglet's ears streamed behind him
like banners as he fought his way along, and it seemed hours before he
got them into the shelter of the Hundred Acre Wood and they stood up
straight again, to listen, a little nervously, to the roaring of the
gale among the tree-tops.

"Supposing a tree fell down, Pooh, when we were underneath it?"

"Supposing it didn't," said Pooh after careful thought.

Piglet was comforted by this, and in a little while they were knocking
and ringing very cheerfully at Owl's door.

"Hallo, Owl," said Pooh. "I hope we're not too late for----I mean, how
are you, Owl? Piglet and I just came to see how you were, because it's
Thursday."

"Sit down, Pooh, sit down, Piglet," said Owl kindly. "Make yourselves
comfortable."

They thanked him, and made themselves as comfortable as they could.

"Because, you see, Owl," said Pooh, "we've been hurrying, so as to be
in time for--so as to see you before we went away again."

Owl nodded solemnly.

"Correct me if I am wrong," he said, "but am I right in supposing that
it is a very Blusterous day outside?"

"Very," said Piglet, who was quietly thawing his ears, and wishing
that he was safely back in his own house.

"I thought so," said Owl. "It was on just such a blusterous day as this
that my Uncle Robert, a portrait of whom you see upon the wall on your
right, Piglet, while returning in the late forenoon from a----What's
that?"

There was a loud cracking noise.

"Look out!" cried Pooh. "Mind the clock! Out of the way, Piglet!
Piglet, I'm falling on you!"

"Help!" cried Piglet.

Pooh's side of the room was slowly tilting upwards and his chair
began sliding down on Piglet's. The clock slithered gently along
the mantelpiece, collecting vases on the way, until they all crashed
together on to what had once been the floor, but was now trying to
see what it looked like as a wall. Uncle Robert, who was going to be
the new hearth-rug, and was bringing the rest of his wall with him as
carpet, met Piglet's chair just as Piglet was expecting to leave it,
and for a little while it became very difficult to remember which was
really the north. Then there was another loud crack ... Owl's room
collected itself feverishly ... and there was silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a corner of the room, the tablecloth began to wriggle.

Then it wrapped itself into a ball and rolled across the room.

Then it jumped up and down once or twice, and put out two ears. It
rolled across the room again, and unwound itself.

"Pooh," said Piglet nervously.

"Yes?" said one of the chairs.

"Where are we?"

"I'm not quite sure," said the chair.

"Are we--are we in Owl's House?"

"I think so, because we were just going to have tea, and we hadn't had
it."

"Oh!" said Piglet. "Well, did Owl _always_ have a letter-box in his
ceiling?"

"Has he?"

"Yes, look."

"I can't," said Pooh. "I'm face downwards under something, and that,
Piglet, is a very bad position for looking at ceilings."

"Well, he has, Pooh."

"Perhaps he's changed it," said Pooh. "Just for a change."

There was a disturbance behind the table in the other corner of the
room, and Owl was with them again.

"Ah, Piglet," said Owl, looking very much annoyed; "where's Pooh?"

"I'm not quite sure," said Pooh.

Owl turned at his voice, and frowned at as much of Pooh as he could see.

"Pooh," said Owl severely, "did _you_ do that?"

"No," said Pooh humbly. "I don't _think_ so."

"Then who did?"

"I think it was the wind," said Piglet. "I think your house has blown
down."

"Oh, is that it? I thought it was Pooh."

"No," said Pooh.

"If it was the wind," said Owl, considering the matter, "then it wasn't
Pooh's fault. No blame can be attached to him." With these kind words
he flew up to look at his new ceiling.

"Piglet!" called Pooh in a loud whisper.

Piglet leant down to him.

"Yes, Pooh?"

"_What_ did he say was attached to me?"

"He said he didn't blame you."

"Oh! I thought he meant--Oh, I see."

"Owl," said Piglet, "come down and help Pooh."

Owl, who was admiring his letter-box, flew down again. Together they
pushed and pulled at the arm-chair, and in a little while Pooh came out
from underneath, and was able to look round him again.

"Well!" said Owl. "This is a nice state of things!"

"What are we going to do, Pooh? Can you think of anything?" asked
Piglet.

"Well, I _had_ just thought of something," said Pooh. "It was just a
little thing I thought of." And he began to sing:

    I lay on my chest
    And I thought it best
    To pretend I was having an evening rest;
    I lay on my tum
    And I tried to hum
    But nothing particular seemed to come.
    My face was flat
    On the floor, and that
    Is all very well for an acrobat;
    But it doesn't seem fair
    To a Friendly Bear
    To stiffen him out with a basket-chair.
    And a sort of sqoze
    Which grows and grows
    Is not too nice for his poor old nose,
    And a sort of squch
    Is much too much
    For his neck and his mouth and his ears and such.

"That was all," said Pooh.

Owl coughed in an unadmiring sort of way, and said that, if Pooh was
sure that _was_ all, they could now give their minds to the Problem of
Escape.

"Because," said Owl, "we can't go out by what used to be the front
door. Something's fallen on it."

"But how else _can_ you go out?" asked Piglet anxiously.

"That is the Problem, Piglet, to which I am asking Pooh to give his
mind."

Pooh sat on the floor which had once been a wall, and gazed up at the
ceiling which had once been another wall, with a front door in it which
had once been a front door, and tried to give his mind to it.

"Could you fly up to the letter-box with Piglet on your back?" he asked.

"No," said Piglet quickly. "He couldn't."

Owl explained about the Necessary Dorsal Muscles. He had explained this
to Pooh and Christopher Robin once before, and had been waiting ever
since for a chance to do it again, because it is a thing which you can
easily explain twice before anybody knows what you are talking about.

"Because you see, Owl, if we could get Piglet into the letter-box, he
might squeeze through the place where the letters come, and climb down
the tree and run for help."

Piglet said hurriedly that he had been getting bigger lately, and
couldn't _possibly_, much as he would like to, and Owl said that he had
had his letter-box made bigger lately in case he got bigger letters, so
perhaps Piglet _might_, and Piglet said, "But you said the necessary
you-know-whats _wouldn't_," and Owl said, "No, they _won't_, so it's
no good thinking about it," and Piglet said "Then we'd better think of
something else," and began to at once.

But Pooh's mind had gone back to the day when he had saved Piglet from
the flood, and everybody had admired him so much; and as that didn't
often happen he thought he would like it to happen again. And suddenly,
just as it had come before, an idea came to him.

"Owl," said Pooh, "I have thought of something."

"Astute and Helpful Bear," said Owl.

Pooh looked proud at being called a stout and helpful bear, and said
modestly that he just happened to think of it. You tied a piece of
string to Piglet, and you flew up to the letter-box with the other end
in your beak, and you pushed it through the wire and brought it down to
the floor, and you and Pooh pulled hard at this end, and Piglet went
slowly up at the other end. And there you were.

"And there Piglet is," said Owl. "If the string doesn't break."

"Supposing it does?" asked Piglet, wanting to know.

"Then we try another piece of string."

This was not very comforting to Piglet, because however many pieces
of string they tried pulling up with, it would always be the same him
coming down; but still, it did seem the only thing to do. So with
one last look back in his mind at all the happy hours he had spent in
the Forest _not_ being pulled up to the ceiling by a piece of string,
Piglet nodded bravely at Pooh and said that it was a Very Clever
pup-pup-pup Clever pup-pup Plan.

"It won't break," whispered Pooh comfortingly, "because you're a Small
Animal, and I'll stand underneath, and if you save us all, it will be
a Very Grand Thing to talk about afterwards, and perhaps I'll make up
a Song, and people will say 'It was so grand what Piglet did that a
Respectful Pooh Song was made about it."

Piglet felt much better after this, and when everything was ready, and
he found himself slowly going up to the ceiling, he was so proud that
he would have called out "Look at _me_!" if he hadn't been afraid that
Pooh and Owl would let go of their end of the string and look at him.

"Up we go!" said Pooh cheerfully.

"The ascent is proceeding as expected," said Owl helpfully. Soon it was
over. Piglet opened the letter-box and climbed in. Then, having untied
himself, he began to squeeze into the slit, through which in the old
days when front doors _were_ front doors, many an unexpected letter
that WOL had written to himself, had come slipping.

He squeezed and he squoze, and then with one last sqooze he was out.
Happy and excited he turned round to squeak a last message to the
prisoners.

"It's all right," he called through the letter-box. "Your tree is blown
right over, Owl, and there's a branch across the door, but Christopher
Robin and I can move it, and we'll bring a rope for Pooh, and I'll
go and tell him now, and I can climb down quite easily, I mean it's
dangerous but I can do it all right, and Christopher Robin and I will
be back in about half-an-hour. Good-bye, Pooh!" And without waiting to
hear Pooh's answering "Good-bye, and thank you, Piglet," he was off.

"Half-an-hour," said Owl, settling himself comfortably. "That will just
give me time to finish that story I was telling you about my Uncle
Robert--a portrait of whom you see underneath you. Now let me see,
where was I? Oh, yes. It was on just such a blusterous day as this that
my Uncle Robert----"

Pooh closed his eyes.




                              CHAPTER IX

       IN WHICH _Eeyore Finds the Wolery and Owl Moves Into It_


Pooh had wandered into the Hundred Acre Wood, and was standing in front
of what had once been Owl's House. It didn't look at all like a house
now; it looked like a tree which had been blown down; and as soon as a
house looks like that, it is time you tried to find another one. Pooh
had had a Mysterious Missage underneath his front door that morning,
saying, "I AM SCERCHING FOR A NEW HOUSE FOR OWL SO HAD YOU RABBIT," and
while he was wondering what it meant, Rabbit had come in and read it
for him.

"I'm leaving one for all the others," said Rabbit, "and telling them
what it means, and they'll all search too. I'm in a hurry, good-bye."
And he had run off.

Pooh followed slowly. He had something better to do than to find a new
house for Owl; he had to make up a Pooh song about the old one. Because
he had promised Piglet days and days ago that he would, and whenever
he and Piglet had met since, Piglet didn't actually say anything, but
you knew at once why he didn't; and if anybody mentioned Hums or Trees
or String or Storms-in-the-Night, Piglet's nose went all pink at the
tip and he talked about something quite different in a hurried sort of
way.

"But it isn't Easy," said Pooh to himself, as he looked at what had
once been Owl's House. "Because Poetry and Hums aren't things which
you get, they're things which get _you_. And all you can do is to go
where they can find you."

He waited hopefully....

"Well," said Pooh after a long wait, "I shall begin '_Here lies a
tree_' because it does, and then I'll see what happens."

This is what happened.

    _Here lies a tree which Owl (a bird)
      Was fond of when it stood on end,
      And Owl was talking to a friend
    Called Me (in case you hadn't heard)
    When something Oo occurred._

    _For lo! the wind was blusterous
      And flattened out his favourite tree;
      And things looked bad for him and we--
    Looked bad, I mean, for he and us--
    I've never known them wuss._

    _Then Piglet (PIGLET) thought a thing:
      "Courage!" he said. "There's always hope.
      I want a thinnish piece of rope.
    Or, if there isn't any bring
    A thickish piece of string."_

    _So to the letter-box he rose,
      While Pooh and Owl said "Oh!" and "Hum!"
      And where the letters always come
    (Called "LETTERS ONLY") Piglet sqoze
    His head and then his toes._

    _O gallant Piglet (PIGLET)! Ho!
      Did Piglet tremble? Did he blinch?
      No, No, he struggled inch by inch
    Through LETTERS ONLY, as I know
    Because I saw him go._

    _He ran and ran, and then he stood
      And shouted, "Help for Owl, a bird
      And Pooh, a bear!" until he heard
    The others coming through the wood
    As quickly as they could._

    _"Help-help and Rescue!" Piglet cried
      And showed the others where to go.
      Sing ho! for Piglet (PIGLET) ho
    And soon the door was opened wide
    And we were both outside!_

    _Sing ho! for Piglet, ho!
    Ho!_

"So there it is," said Pooh, when he had sung this to himself three
times. "It's come different from what I thought it would, but it's
come. Now I must go and sing it to Piglet."

    I AM SCERCHING FOR A NEW HOUSE FOR OWL SO HAD YOU RABBIT.

"What's all this?" said Eeyore.

Rabbit explained.

"What's the matter with his old house?" asked Eeyore.

Rabbit explained.

"Nobody tells me," said Eeyore. "Nobody keeps me Informed. I make it
seventeen days come Friday since anybody spoke to me."

"It certainly isn't seventeen days----"

"Come Friday," explained Eeyore.

"And today's Saturday," said Rabbit. "So that would make it eleven
days. And I was here myself a week ago."

"Not conversing," said Eeyore. "Not first one and then the other. You
said 'Hallo' and Flashed Past. I saw your tail in the distance as I was
meditating my reply. I _had_ thought of saying 'What?'--but, of course,
it was then too late."

"Well, I was in a hurry."

"No Give and Take," Eeyore went on. "No Exchange of Thought:
'_Hallo--What_'----I mean, it gets you nowhere, particularly if the
other person's tail is only just in sight for the second half of the
conversation."

"It's your fault, Eeyore. You've never been to see any of us. You just
stay here in this one corner of the Forest waiting for the others to
come to _you_. Why don't you go to _them_ sometimes?"

Eeyore was silent for a little while, thinking.

"There may be something in what you say, Rabbit," he said at last. "I
must move about more. I must come and go."

"That's right, Eeyore. Drop in on any of us at any time, when you feel
like it."

"Thank-you, Rabbit. And if anybody says in a Loud Voice 'Bother, it's
Eeyore,' I can drop out again."

Rabbit stood on one leg for a moment.

"Well," he said, "I must be going."

"Good-bye," said Eeyore.

"What? Oh, good-bye. And if you do come across a house for Owl, you
must let us know."

"I will give my mind to it," said Eeyore.

Rabbit went.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pooh had found Piglet, and they were walking back to the Hundred Acre
Wood together.

"Piglet," said Pooh a little shyly, after they had walked for some time
without saying anything.

"Yes, Pooh?"

"Do you remember when I said that a Respectful Pooh Song might be
written about You Know What?"

"Did you, Pooh?" said Piglet, getting a little pink round the nose.
"Oh, yes, I believe you did."

"It's been written, Piglet."

The pink went slowly up Piglet's nose to his ears, and settled there.

"Has it, Pooh?" he asked huskily. "About--about----That Time
When?----Do you mean really written?"

"Yes, Piglet."

The tips of Piglet's ears glowed suddenly, and he tried to say
something; but even after he had husked once or twice, nothing came
out. So Pooh went on.

"There are seven verses in it."

"Seven?" said Piglet as carelessly as he could. "You don't often get
_seven_ verses in a Hum, do you, Pooh?"

"Never," said Pooh, "I don't suppose it's _ever_ been heard of before."

"Do the Others know yet?" asked Piglet, stopping for a moment to pick
up a stick and throw it away.

"No," said Pooh. "And I wondered which you would like best. For me to
hum it now, or to wait till we find the others, and then hum it to all
of you."

Piglet thought for a little.

"I think what I'd like best, Pooh, is I'd like you to hum it to me
_now_--and--and _then_ to hum it to all of us. Because then Everybody
would hear it, but I could say 'Oh, yes, Pooh's told me,' and pretend
not to be listening."

So Pooh hummed it to him, all the seven verses and Piglet said nothing,
but just stood and glowed. Never before had anyone sung ho for Piglet
(PIGLET) ho all by himself. When it was over, he wanted to ask for one
of the verses over again, but didn't quite like to. It was the verse
beginning "O gallant Piglet," and it seemed to him a very thoughtful
way of beginning a piece of poetry.

"Did I really do all that?" he said at last.

"Well," said Pooh, "in poetry--in a piece of poetry--well, you _did_
it, Piglet, because the poetry says you did. And that's how people
know."

"Oh!" said Piglet. "Because I--I thought I did blinch a little. Just at
first. And it says, 'Did he blinch no no.' That's why."

"You only blinched inside," said Pooh, "and that's the bravest way for
a Very Small Animal not to blinch that there is."

Piglet sighed with happiness, and began to think about himself. He was
BRAVE....

When they got to Owl's old house, they found everybody else there
except Eeyore. Christopher Robin was telling them what to do, and
Rabbit was telling them again directly afterwards, in case they hadn't
heard, and then they were all doing it. They had got a rope and were
pulling Owl's chairs and pictures and things out of his old house so as
to be ready to put them into his new one. Kanga was down below tying
the things on, and calling out to Owl, "You won't want this dirty old
dish-cloth any more, will you, and what about this carpet, it's all
in holes," and Owl was calling back indignantly, "Of course I do! It's
just a question of arranging the furniture properly, and it isn't a
dish-cloth, it's my shawl." Every now and then Roo fell in and came
back on the rope with the next article, which flustered Kanga a little
because she never knew where to look for him. So she got cross with Owl
and said that his house was a Disgrace, all damp and dirty, and it was
quite time it did tumble down. Look at that horrid bunch of toadstools
growing out of the floor there! So Owl looked down, a little surprised
because he didn't know about this, and then gave a short sarcastic
laugh, and explained that that was his sponge, and that if people
didn't know a perfectly ordinary bath-sponge when they saw it, things
were coming to a pretty pass. "_Well!_" said Kanga, and Roo fell in
quickly, crying, "I _must_ see Owl's sponge! Oh, there it is! Oh, Owl!
Owl, it isn't a sponge, it's a spudge! Do you know what a spudge is,
Owl? It's when your sponge gets all----" and Kanga said, "Roo, dear!"
very quickly, because that's _not_ the way to talk to anybody who can
spell TUESDAY.

But they were all quite happy when Pooh and Piglet came along, and they
stopped working in order to have a little rest and listen to Pooh's
new song. So then they all told Pooh how good it was, and Piglet said
carelessly, "It _is_ good, isn't it? I mean as a song."

"And what about the new house?" asked Pooh. "Have you found it, Owl?"

"He's found a name for it," said Christopher Robin, lazily nibbling at
a piece of grass, "so now all he wants is the house."

"I am calling it this," said Owl importantly, and he showed them what
he had been making. It was a square piece of board with the name of the
house painted on it.

    THE WOLERY

It was at this exciting moment that something came through the trees,
and bumped into Owl. The board fell to the ground, and Piglet and Roo
bent over it eagerly.

"Oh, it's you," said Owl crossly.

"Hallo, Eeyore!" said Rabbit. "_There_ you are! Where have _you_ been?"
Eeyore took no notice of them.

"Good morning, Christopher Robin," he said, brushing away Roo and
Piglet, and sitting down on THE WOLERY. "Are we alone?"

"Yes," said Christopher Robin, smiling to himself.

"I have been told--the news has worked through to my corner of the
Forest--the damp bit down on the right which nobody wants--that a
certain Person is looking for a house. I have found one for him."

"Ah, well done," said Rabbit kindly.

Eeyore looked round slowly at him, and then turned back to Christopher
Robin.

"We have been joined by something," he said in a loud whisper. "But no
matter. We can leave it behind. If you will come with me, Christopher
Robin, I will show you the house."

Christopher Robin jumped up.

"Come on, Pooh," he said.

"Come on, Tigger!" cried Roo.

"Shall we go, Owl?" said Rabbit.

"Wait a moment," said Owl, picking up his notice-board, which had just
come into sight again.

Eeyore waved them back.

"Christopher Robin and I are going for a Short Walk," he said, "not a
Jostle. If he likes to bring Pooh and Piglet with him, I shall be glad
of their company, but one must be able to Breathe."

"That's all right," said Rabbit, rather glad to be left in charge of
something. "We'll go on getting the things out. Now then, Tigger,
where's that rope? What's the matter, Owl?"

Owl, who had just discovered that his new address was THE SMUDGE,
coughed at Eeyore sternly, but said nothing, and Eeyore, with most of
THE WOLERY behind him, marched off with his friends.

So, in a little while, they came to the house which Eeyore had found,
and for some minutes before they came to it, Piglet was nudging Pooh,
and Pooh was nudging Piglet, and they were saying, "It is!" and "It
can't be!" and "It is, _really_!" to each other.

And when they got there, it really was.

"There!" said Eeyore proudly, stopping them outside Piglet's house.
"And the name on it, and everything!"

"Oh!" cried Christopher Robin, wondering whether to laugh or what.

"Just the house for Owl. Don't you think so, little Piglet?"

And then Piglet did a Noble Thing, and he did it in a sort of dream,
while he was thinking of all the wonderful words Pooh had hummed about
him.

"Yes, it's just the house for Owl," he said grandly. "And I hope he'll
be very happy in it." And then he gulped twice, because he had been
very happy in it himself.

"What do _you_ think, Christopher Robin?" asked Eeyore a little
anxiously, feeling that something wasn't quite right.

Christopher Robin had a question to ask first, and he was wondering how
to ask it.

"Well," he said at last, "it's a very nice house, and if your own house
is blown down, you _must_ go somewhere else, mustn't you, Piglet? What
would _you_ do, if _your_ house was blown down?"

Before Piglet could think, Pooh answered for him.

"He'd come and live with me," said Pooh, "wouldn't you, Piglet?"

Piglet squeezed his paw.

"Thank you, Pooh," he said, "I should love to."




                               CHAPTER X

   IN WHICH _Christopher Robin and Pooh Come to an Enchanted Place,
                       and We Leave Them There_


Christopher Robin was going away. Nobody knew why he was going; nobody
knew where he was going; indeed, nobody even knew why he knew that
Christopher Robin _was_ going away. But somehow or other everybody in
the Forest felt that it was happening at last. Even Smallest-of-all,
a friend-and-relation of Rabbit's who thought he had once seen
Christopher Robin's foot, but couldn't be quite sure because perhaps it
was something else, even S. of A. told himself that Things were going
to be Different; and Late and Early, two other friends-and-relations,
said, "Well, Early?" and "Well, Late?" to each other in such a hopeless
sort of way that it really didn't seem any good waiting for the answer.

One day when he felt that he couldn't wait any longer, Rabbit brained
out a Notice, and this is what it said:

"Notice a meeting of everybody will meet at the House at Pooh Corner to
pass a Rissolution By Order Keep to the Left Signed Rabbit."

He had to write this out two or three times before he could get the
rissolution to look like what he thought it was going to when he began
to spell it: but, when at last it was finished, he took it round to
everybody and read it out to them. And they all said they would come.

"Well," said Eeyore that afternoon, when he saw them all walking up to
his house, "this _is_ a surprise. Am _I_ asked too?"

"Don't mind Eeyore," whispered Rabbit to Pooh. "I told him all about it
this morning."

Everybody said "How-do-you-do" to Eeyore, and Eeyore said that he
didn't, not to notice, and then they sat down; and as soon as they were
all sitting down, Rabbit stood up again.

"We all know why we're here," he said, "but I have asked my friend
Eeyore----"

"That's Me," said Eeyore. "Grand."

"I have asked him to Propose a Rissolution." And he sat down again.
"Now then, Eeyore," he said.

"Don't Bustle me," said Eeyore, getting up slowly. "Don't now-then
me." He took a piece of paper from behind his ear, and unfolded it.
"Nobody knows anything about this," he went on. "This is a Surprise."
He coughed in an important way, and began again: "What-nots and
Etceteras, before I begin, or perhaps I should say, before I end, I
have a piece of Poetry to read to you. Hitherto--hitherto--a long word
meaning--well, you'll see what it means directly--hitherto, as I was
saying, all the Poetry in the Forest has been written by Pooh, a Bear
with a Pleasing Manner but a Positively Startling Lack of Brain. The
Poem which I am now about to read to you was written by Eeyore, or
Myself, in a Quiet Moment. If somebody will take Roo's bull's-eye away
from him, and wake up Owl, we shall all be able to enjoy it. I call
it--POEM."

This was it.

    Christopher Robin is going.
    At least I think he is.
    Where?
    Nobody knows.
    But he is going--
    I mean he goes
    (_To rhyme with "knows"_)
    Do we care?
    (_To rhyme with "where"_)
    We do
    Very much.
    (_I haven't got a rhyme for that "is" in the second line yet.
      Bother._)
    (_Now I haven't got a rhyme for bother. Bother._)
    Those two bothers will have to rhyme with each other. Buther.
    The fact is this is more difficult than I thought,
    I ought--
    (_Very good indeed_)
    I ought
    To begin again,
    But it is easier
    To stop.
    Christopher Robin, good-bye,
    I
    (_Good_)
    I
    And all your friends
    Sends--
    I mean all your friend
    Send--
    (_Very awkward this, it keeps going wrong_)
    Well, anyhow, we send
      Our love
    END.

"If anybody wants to clap," said Eeyore when he had read this, "now is
the time to do it."

They all clapped.

"Thank you," said Eeyore. "Unexpected and gratifying, if a little
lacking in Smack."

"It's much better than mine," said Pooh admiringly, and he really
thought it was.

"Well," explained Eeyore modestly, "it was meant to be."

"The rissolution," said Rabbit, "is that we all sign it, and take it to
Christopher Robin."

So it was signed POOH, PIGLET, WOL, EOR, RABBIT, KANGA, BLOT, SMUDGE,
and they all went off to Christopher Robin's house with it.

"Hallo, everybody," said Christopher Robin--"Hallo, Pooh."

They all said "Hallo," and felt awkward and unhappy suddenly, because
it was a sort of good-bye they were saying, and they didn't want to
think about it. So they stood around, and waited for somebody else to
speak, and they nudged each other, and said "Go on," and gradually
Eeyore was nudged to the front, and the others crowded behind him.

"What is it, Eeyore?" asked Christopher Robin. Eeyore swished his tail
from side to side, so as to encourage himself, and began.

[Illustration: _"What is it, Eeyore?" asked Christopher Robin._]

"Christopher Robin," he said, "we've come to say--to give you--it's
called--written by--but we've all--because we've heard, I mean we all
know--well, you see, it's--we--you--well, that, to put it as shortly
as possible, is what it is." He turned round angrily on the others and
said, "Everybody crowds round so in this Forest. There's no Space. I
never saw a more Spreading lot of animals in my life, and all in the
wrong places. Can't you _see_ that Christopher Robin wants to be alone?
I'm going." And he humped off.

Not quite knowing why, the others began edging away, and when
Christopher Robin had finished reading POEM, and was looking up to say,
"Thank you," only Pooh was left.

"It's a comforting sort of thing to have," said Christopher Robin,
folding up the paper, and putting it in his pocket. "Come on, Pooh,"
and he walked off quickly.

"Where are we going?" said Pooh, hurrying after him,
and wondering whether it was to be an Explore or a
What-shall-I-do-about-you-know-what.

"Nowhere," said Christopher Robin.

So they began going there, and after they had walked a little way
Christopher Robin said:

"What do you like doing best in the world, Pooh?"

"Well," said Pooh, "what I like best----" and then he had to stop and
think. Because although Eating Honey _was_ a very good thing to do,
there was a moment just before you began to eat it which was better
than when you were, but he didn't know what it was called. And then
he thought that being with Christopher Robin was a very good thing
to do, and having Piglet near was a very friendly thing to have; and
so, when he had thought it all out, he said, "What I like best in the
whole world is Me and Piglet going to see You, and You saying 'What
about a little something?' and Me saying, 'Well, I shouldn't mind a
little something, should you, Piglet,' and it being a hummy sort of day
outside, and birds singing."

"I like that too," said Christopher Robin, "but what I like _doing_
best is Nothing."

"How do you do Nothing?" asked Pooh, after he had wondered for a long
time.

"Well, it's when people call out at you just as you're going off to
do it, What are you going to do, Christopher Robin, and you say, Oh,
nothing, and then you go and do it."

"Oh, I see," said Pooh.

"This is a nothing sort of thing that we're doing now."

"Oh, I see," said Pooh again.

"It means just going along, listening to all the things you can't hear,
and not bothering."

"Oh!" said Pooh.

They walked on, thinking of This and That, and by-and-by they came
to an enchanted place on the very top of the Forest called Galleons
Lap, which is sixty-something trees in a circle; and Christopher Robin
knew that it was enchanted because nobody had ever been able to count
whether it was sixty-three or sixty-four, not even when he tied a piece
of string round each tree after he had counted it. Being enchanted,
its floor was not like the floor of the Forest, gorse and bracken and
heather, but close-set grass, quiet and smooth and green. It was the
only place in the Forest where you could sit down carelessly, without
getting up again almost at once and looking for somewhere else. Sitting
there they could see the whole world spread out until it reached
the sky, and whatever there was all the world over was with them in
Galleons Lap.

Suddenly Christopher Robin began to tell Pooh about some of the things:
People called Kings and Queens and something called Factors, and a
place called Europe, and an island in the middle of the sea where no
ships came, and how you make a Suction Pump (if you want to), and
when Knights were Knighted, and what comes from Brazil. And Pooh, his
back against one of the sixty-something trees, and his paws folded
in front of him, said "Oh!" and "I didn't know," and thought how
wonderful it would be to have a Real Brain which could tell you things.
And by-and-by Christopher Robin came to an end of the things, and was
silent, and he sat there looking out over the world, and wishing it
wouldn't stop.

But Pooh was thinking too, and he said suddenly to Christopher Robin:

"Is it a very Grand thing to be an Afternoon, what you said?"

"A what?" said Christopher Robin lazily, as he listened to something
else.

"On a horse," explained Pooh.

"A Knight?"

"Oh, was that it?" said Pooh. "I thought it was a----Is it as Grand as
a King and Factors and all the other things you said?"

"Well, it's not as grand as a King," said Christopher Robin, and then,
as Pooh seemed disappointed, he added quickly, "but it's grander than
Factors."

"Could a Bear be one?"

"Of course he could!" said Christopher Robin. "I'll make you one." And
he took a stick and touched Pooh on the shoulder, and said, "Rise, Sir
Pooh de Bear, most faithful of all my Knights."

So Pooh rose and sat down and said "Thank you," which is the proper
thing to say when you have been made a Knight, and he went into a
dream again, in which he and Sir Pomp and Sir Brazil and Factors
lived together with a horse, and were faithful Knights (all except
Factors, who looked after the horse) to Good King Christopher Robin
... and every now and then he shook his head, and said to himself
"I'm not getting it right." Then he began to think of all the things
Christopher Robin would want to tell him when he came back from
wherever he was going to, and how muddling it would be for a Bear of
Very Little Brain to try and get them right in his mind. "So, perhaps,"
he said sadly to himself, "Christopher Robin won't tell me any more,"
and he wondered if being a Faithful Knight meant that you just went on
being faithful without being told things.

Then, suddenly again, Christopher Robin, who was still looking at the
world, with his chin in his hands, called out "Pooh!"

"Yes?" said Pooh.

"When I'm--when----Pooh!"

"Yes, Christopher Robin?"

"I'm not going to do Nothing any more."

"Never again?"

"Well, not so much. They don't let you."

Pooh waited for him to go on, but he was silent again.

"Yes, Christopher Robin?" said Pooh helpfully.

"Pooh, when I'm--_you_ know--when I'm _not_ doing Nothing, will you
come up here sometimes?"

"Just Me?"

"Yes, Pooh."

"Will you be here too?"

"Yes, Pooh, I will be, _really_. I _promise_ I will be, Pooh."

"That's good," said Pooh.

"Pooh, _promise_ you won't forget about me, ever. Not even when I'm a
hundred."

Pooh thought for a little.

"How old shall _I_ be then?"

"Ninety-nine."

Pooh nodded.

"I promise," he said.

Still with his eyes on the world Christopher Robin put out a hand and
felt for Pooh's paw.

"Pooh," said Christopher Robin earnestly, "if I--if I'm not quite----"
he stopped and tried again--"Pooh, _whatever_ happens, you _will_
understand, won't you?"

"Understand what?"

"Oh, nothing." He laughed and jumped to his feet. "Come on!"

"Where?" said Pooh.

"Anywhere," said Christopher Robin.

       *       *       *       *       *

So they went off together. But wherever they go, and whatever happens
to them on the way, in that enchanted place on the top of the Forest, a
little boy and his Bear will always be playing.

NOW WE ARE SIX




                               SOLITUDE


    I have a house where I go
      When there's too many people,
    I have a house where I go
      Where no one can be;
    I have a house where I go,
    Where nobody ever says "No";
    Where no one says anything--so
      There is no one but me.




                         KING JOHN'S CHRISTMAS


    King John was not a good man--
      He had his little ways.
    And sometimes no one spoke to him
      For days and days and days.
    And men who came across him,
      When walking in the town,
    Gave him a supercilious stare,
    Or passed with noses in the air--
    And bad King John stood dumbly there,
      Blushing beneath his crown.

    King John was not a good man,
      And no good friends had he.
    He stayed in every afternoon...
      But no one came to tea.
    And, round about December,
      The cards upon his shelf
    Which wished him lots of Christmas cheer,
    And fortune in the coming year,
    Were never from his near and dear,
      But only from himself.

    King John was not a good man,
      Yet had his hopes and fears.
    They'd given him no present now
      For years and years and years.
    But every year at Christmas,
      While minstrels stood about,
    Collecting tribute from the young
    For all the songs they might have sung,
    He stole away upstairs and hung
      A hopeful stocking out.

    King John was not a good man,
      He lived his life aloof;
    Alone he thought a message out
      While climbing up the roof.
    He wrote it down and propped it
      Against the chimney stack:
    "TO ALL AND SUNDRY--NEAR AND FAR--
    F. CHRISTMAS IN PARTICULAR."
    And signed it not "Johannes R."
      But very humbly, "JACK."

    "I want some crackers,
      And I want some candy;
    I think a box of chocolates
      Would come in handy;
    I don't mind oranges,
      I do like nuts!
    And I SHOULD like a pocket-knife
      That really cuts.
    And, oh! Father Christmas, if you love me at all,
    Bring me a big, red india-rubber ball!"

    King John was not a good man--
      He wrote this message out,
    And gat him to his room again,
      Descending by the spout.
    And all that night he lay there,
      A prey to hopes and fears.
    "I think that's him a-coming now,"
    (Anxiety bedewed his brow.)
    "He'll bring one present, anyhow--
      The first I've had for years."

    "Forget about the crackers,
      And forget about the candy;
    I'm sure a box of chocolates
      Would never come in handy;
    I don't like oranges,
      I don't want nuts,
    And I HAVE got a pocket-knife
      That almost cuts.
    But, oh! Father Christmas, if you love me at all,
    Bring me a big, red india-rubber ball!"

    King John was not a good man--
      Next morning when the sun
    Rose up to tell a waiting world
      That Christmas had begun,
    And people seized their stockings,
      And opened them with glee,
    And crackers, toys and games appeared,
    And lips with sticky sweets were smeared,
    King John said grimly: "As I feared,
      Nothing again for me!"

    "I did want crackers,
      And I did want candy;
    I know a box of chocolates
      Would come in handy;
    I do love oranges,
      I did want nuts.
    I haven't got a pocket-knife--
      Not one that cuts.
    And, oh! if Father Christmas had loved me at all,
    He would have brought a big, red india-rubber ball!"

    King John stood by the window,
      And frowned to see below
    The happy bands of boys and girls
      All playing in the snow.
    A while he stood there watching,
      And envying them all...
    When through the window big and red
    There hurtled by his royal head,
    And bounced and fell upon the bed,
      An india-rubber ball!

    AND OH, FATHER CHRISTMAS,
    MY BLESSINGS ON YOU FALL
        FOR BRINGING HIM
        A BIG, RED,
        INDIA-RUBBER
        BALL!




                                 BUSY


    I think I am a Muffin Man. I haven't got a bell,
    I haven't got the muffin things that muffin people sell.
    Perhaps I am a Postman. No, I think I am a Tram.
    I'm feeling rather funny and I don't know _what_ I am--

                 BUT

            _Round_ about
            And _round_ about
            And _round_ about I go--
            All round the table,
            The table in the nursery--
            _Round_ about
            And _round_ about
            And _round_ about I go;

    I think I am a Traveller escaping from a Bear;
    I think I am an Elephant,
    Behind another Elephant
    Behind _another_ Elephant who isn't really there....

                 SO

            _Round_ about
            And _round_ about
            And _round_ about and _round_ about
            And _round_ about
            And _round_ about
                I go.

    I think I am a Ticket Man who's selling tickets--please,
    I think I am a Doctor who is visiting a Sneeze;
    Perhaps I'm just a Nanny who is walking with a pram
    I'm feeling rather funny and I don't know _what_ I am--

                 BUT

            _Round_ about
            And _round_ about
            And _round_ about I go--
            All around the table,
            The table in the nursery--
            _Round_ about
            And _round_ about
            And _round_ about I go;

    I think I am a Puppy, so I'm hanging out my tongue;
    I think I am a Camel who
    Is looking for a Camel who
    Is looking for a Camel who is looking for its Young....

                 SO

            _Round_ about
            And _round_ about
            And _round_ about and _round_ about
            And _round_ about
            And _round_ about
                I go.




                               SNEEZLES


    Christopher Robin
    Had wheezles
    And sneezles,
    They bundled him
    Into
    His bed.
    They gave him what goes
    With a cold in the nose,
    And some more for a cold
    In the head.
    They wondered
    If wheezles
    Could turn
    Into measles,
    If sneezles
    Would turn
    Into mumps;
    They examined his chest
    For a rash,
    And the rest
    Of his body for swellings and lumps.
    They sent for some doctors
    In sneezles
    And wheezles
    To tell them what ought
    To be done.

    All sorts and conditions
    Of famous physicians
    Came hurrying round
    At a run.
    They all made a note
    Of the state of his throat,
    They asked if he suffered from thirst;
    They asked if the sneezles
    Came _after_ the wheezles,
    Or if the first sneezle
    Came first.
    They said, "If you teazle
    A sneezle
    Or wheezle,
    A measle
    May easily grow.
    But humour or pleazle
    The wheezle
    Or sneezle,
    The measle
    Will certainly go."
    They expounded the reazles
    For sneezles
    And wheezles,
    The manner of measles
    When new.
    They said "If he freezles
    In draughts and in breezles,
    Then PHTHEEZLES
    May even ensue."

           *       *       *       *       *

    Christopher Robin
    Got up in the morning,
    The sneezles had vanished away.
    And the look in his eye
    Seemed to say to the sky,
    "_Now, how to amuse them to-day?_"




                                BINKER


    Binker--what I call him--is a secret of my own,
    And Binker is the reason why I never feel alone.
    Playing in the nursery, sitting on the stair,
    Whatever I am busy at, Binker will be there.

        Oh, Daddy is clever, he's a clever sort of man,
        And Mummy is the best since the world began,
        And Nanny is Nanny, and I call her Nan--
                      But they can't
                      See
                      Binker.

    Binker's always talking, 'cos I'm teaching him to speak:
    He sometimes likes to do it in a funny sort of squeak,
    And he sometimes likes to do it in a hoodling sort of roar ...
    And I have to do it for him 'cos his throat is rather sore.

        Oh, Daddy is clever, he's a clever sort of man,
        And Mummy knows all that anybody can,
        And Nanny is Nanny, and I call her Nan--
                      But they don't
                      Know
                      Binker.

    Binker's brave as lions when we're running in the park;
    Binker's brave as tigers when we're lying in the dark;
    Binker's brave as elephants. He never, never cries ...
    Except (like other people) when the soap gets in his eyes.

        Oh, Daddy is Daddy, he's a Daddy sort of man,
        And Mummy is as Mummy as anybody can,
        And Nanny is Nanny, and I call her Nan ...
                      But they're not
                      Like
                      Binker.

    Binker isn't greedy, but he does like things to eat,
    So I have to say to people when they're giving me a sweet,
    "Oh, Binker wants a chocolate, so could you give me two?"
    And then I eat it for him, 'cos his teeth are rather new.

    Well, I'm very fond of Daddy, but he hasn't time to play,
    And I'm very fond of Mummy, but she sometimes goes away,
    And I'm often cross with Nanny when she wants to brush my hair ...
    But Binker's always Binker, and is certain to be there.




                             CHERRY STONES


        _Tinker_, _Tailor_,
        _Soldier_, _Sailor_,
        _Rich Man_, _Poor Man_,
        _Ploughboy_, _Thief_--

    And what about a Cowboy,
    Policeman, Jailer,
    Engine-driver,
    Or Pirate Chief?
    What about a Postman--or a Keeper at the Zoo?
    What about the Circus Man who lets the people through?
    And the man who takes the pennies for the roundabouts and swings,
    Or the man who plays the organ, and the other man who sings?
    What about a Conjuror with rabbits in his pockets?
    What about a Rocket Man who's always making rockets?
    Oh, there's such a lot of things to do and such a lot to be
    That there's always lots of cherries on my little cherry tree!




                 THE KNIGHT WHOSE ARMOUR DIDN'T SQUEAK


    Of all the Knights in Appledore
      The wisest was Sir Thomas Tom.
    He multiplied as far as four,
      And knew what nine was taken from
    To make eleven. He could write
    A letter to another Knight.

    No other Knight in all the land
      Could do the things which he could do.
    Not only did he understand
      The way to polish swords, but knew
    What remedy a Knight should seek
    Whose armour had begun to squeak.

    And, if he didn't fight too much,
      It wasn't that he did not care
    For blips and buffetings and such,
      But felt that it was hardly fair
    To risk, by frequent injuries,
    A brain as delicate as his.

    His castle (Castle Tom) was set
      Conveniently on a hill;
    And daily, when it wasn't wet,
      He paced the battlements until
    Some smaller Knight who couldn't swim
    Should reach the moat and challenge him.

    Or sometimes, feeling full of fight,
      He hurried out to scour the plain;
    And, seeing some approaching Knight,
      He either hurried home again,
    Or hid; and, when the foe was past,
    Blew a triumphant trumpet-blast.

    One day when good Sir Thomas Tom
      Was resting in a handy ditch,
    The noises he was hiding from,
      Though very much the noises which
    He'd always hidden from before,
    Seemed somehow less.... Or was it more?

    The trotting horse, the trumpet's blast,
      The whistling sword, the armour's squeak,
    These, and especially the last,
      Had clattered by him all the week.
    Was this the same, or was it not?
    _Something was different._ But what?

    Sir Thomas raised a cautious ear
      And listened as Sir Hugh went by,
    And suddenly he seemed to hear
      (Or not to hear) the reason why
    This stranger made a nicer sound
    Than other Knights who lived around.

    Sir Thomas watched the way he went--
      His rage was such he couldn't speak,
    For years they'd called him down in Kent
      The Knight Whose Armour Didn't Squeak!
    Yet here and now he looked upon
    _Another_ Knight whose squeak had gone.

    He rushed to where his horse was tied;
      He spurred it to a rapid trot.
    The only fear he felt inside
      About his enemy was not
    "How sharp his sword?" "How stout his heart?"
    But "Has he got too long a start?"

    Sir Hugh was singing, hand on hip,
      When something sudden came along,
    And caught him a terrific blip
      Right in the middle of his song.
    "A thunderstorm!" he thought. "Of course!"
    And toppled gently off his horse.

    Then said the good Sir Thomas Tom,
      Dismounting with a friendly air,
    "Allow me to extract you from
      The heavy armour that you wear.
    At times like these the bravest Knight
    May find his armour much too tight."

    A hundred yards or so beyond
      The scene of brave Sir Hugh's defeat
    Sir Thomas found a useful pond,
      And, careful not to wet his feet,
    He brought the armour to the brink,
    And flung it in ... and watched it sink.

    So ever after, more and more,
      The men of Kent would proudly speak
    Of Thomas Tom of Appledore,
      "The Knight Whose Armour Didn't Squeak"
    Whilst Hugh, the Knight who gave him best,
    Squeaks just as badly as the rest.




                            BUTTERCUP DAYS


    Where is Anne?
      Head above the buttercups,
    Walking by the stream,
      Down among the buttercups.
    Where is Anne?
    Walking with her man,
    Lost in a dream,
      Lost among the buttercups.

    What has she got in that little brown head?
    Wonderful thoughts which can never be said.
    What has she got in that firm little fist of hers?
    Somebody's thumb, and it feels like Christopher's.

    Where is Anne?
    Close to her man.
    Brown head, gold head,
      In and out the buttercups.




                          THE CHARCOAL-BURNER


    The charcoal-burner has tales to tell.
    He lives in the Forest,
    Alone in the Forest;
    He sits in the Forest,
    Alone in the Forest.
    And the sun comes slanting between the trees,
    And rabbits come up, and they give him good-morning,
    And rabbits come up and say, "Beautiful morning"....
    And the moon swings clear of the tall black trees,
    And owls fly over and wish him good-night,
    Quietly over to wish him good-night....

    And he sits and thinks of the things they know,
    He and the Forest, alone together--
    The springs that come and the summers that go,
    Autumn dew on bracken and heather,
    The drip of the Forest beneath the snow....
    All the things they have seen,
    All the things they have heard:
    An April sky swept clean and the song of a bird....
    Oh, the charcoal-burner has tales to tell!
    And he lives in the Forest and knows us well.




                                US TWO


    Wherever I am, there's always Pooh,
    There's always Pooh and Me.
    Whatever I do, he wants to do,
    "Where are you going to-day?" says Pooh:
    "Well, that's very odd 'cos I was too.
    Let's go together," says Pooh, says he.
    "Let's go together," says Pooh.

    "What's twice eleven?" I said to Pooh.
    ("Twice what?" said Pooh to Me.)
    "I _think_ it ought to be twenty-two."
    "Just what I think myself," said Pooh.
    "It wasn't an easy sum to do,
    But that's what it is," said Pooh, said he.
    "That's what it is," said Pooh.

    "Let's look for dragons," I said to Pooh.
    "Yes, let's," said Pooh to Me.
    We crossed the river and found a few--
    "Yes, those are dragons all right," said Pooh.
    "As soon as I saw their beaks I knew.
    That's what they are," said Pooh, said he.
    "That's what they are," said Pooh.

    "Let's frighten the dragons," I said to Pooh.
    "That's right," said Pooh to Me.
    "_I'm_ not afraid," I said to Pooh,
    And I held his paw and I shouted "Shoo!
    Silly old dragons!"--and off they flew.
    "I wasn't afraid," said Pooh, said he,
    "I'm _never_ afraid with you."

    So wherever I am, there's always Pooh,
    There's always Pooh and Me.
    "What would I do?" I said to Pooh,
    "If it wasn't for you," and Pooh said: "True,
    It isn't much fun for One, but Two
    Can stick together," says Pooh, says he.
    "That's how it is," says Pooh.




                            THE OLD SAILOR


    There was once an old sailor my grandfather knew
    Who had so many things which he wanted to do
    That, whenever he thought it was time to begin,
    He couldn't because of the state he was in.

    He was shipwrecked, and lived on an island for weeks,
    And he wanted a hat, and he wanted some breeks;
    And he wanted some nets, or a line and some hooks
    For the turtles and things which you read of in books.

    And, thinking of this, he remembered a thing
    Which he wanted (for water) and that was a spring;
    And he thought that to talk to he'd look for, and keep
    (If he found it) a goat, or some chickens and sheep.

    Then, because of the weather, he wanted a hut
    With a door (to come in by) which opened and shut
    (With a jerk, which was useful if snakes were about),
    And a very strong lock to keep savages out.

    He began on the fish-hooks, and when he'd begun
    He decided he couldn't because of the sun.
    So he knew what he ought to begin with, and that
    Was to find, or to make, a large sun-stopping hat.

    He was making the hat with some leaves from a tree,
    When he thought, "I'm as hot as a body can be,
    And I've nothing to take for my terrible thirst;
    So I'll look for a spring, and I'll look for it _first_."

    Then he thought as he started, "Oh, dear and oh, dear!
    I'll be lonely to-morrow with nobody here!"
    So he made in his note-book a couple of notes:
    "_I must first find some chickens_" and "_No, I mean goats._"

    He had just seen a goat (which he knew by the shape)
    When he thought, "But I must have a boat for escape.
    But a boat means a sail, which means needles and thread;
    So I'd better sit down and make needles instead."

    He began on a needle, but thought as he worked,
    That, if this was an island where savages lurked,
    Sitting safe in his hut he'd have nothing to fear,
    Whereas now they might suddenly breathe in his ear!

    So he thought of his hut ... and he thought of his boat,
    And his hat and his breeks, and his chickens and goat,
    And the hooks (for his food) and the spring (for his thirst)....
    But he _never_ could think which he ought to do first.

    And so in the end he did nothing at all,
    But basked on the shingle wrapped up in a shawl.
    And I think it was dreadful the way he behaved--
    He did nothing but basking until he was saved!




                             THE ENGINEER


    Let it rain!
    Who cares?
    I've a train
    Upstairs,
    With a brake
    Which I make
    From a string
    Sort of thing,
    Which works
    In jerks,
    'Cos it drops
    In the spring,
    Which stops
    With the string,
    And the wheels
    All stick
    So quick
    That it feels
    Like a thing
    That you make
    With a brake,
    Not string....

    So that's what I make,
    When the day's all wet.
    It's a good sort of brake
    But it hasn't worked yet.




                             JOURNEY'S END


    _Christopher, Christopher, where are you going, Christopher Robin?_
          "Just up to the top of the hill,
          Upping and upping until
          I am right on the top of the hill,"
              Said Christopher Robin.

    _Christopher, Christopher, why are you going, Christopher Robin?_
          _There's nothing to see, so when
          You've got to the top, what then?_
          "Just down to the bottom again,"
              Said Christopher Robin.




                              FURRY BEAR


    If I were a bear,
      And a big bear too,
    I shouldn't much care
      If it froze or snew;
    I shouldn't much mind
      If it snowed or friz--
    I'd be all fur-lined
      With a coat like his!

    For I'd have fur boots and a brown fur wrap,
    And brown fur knickers and a big fur cap.
    I'd have a fur muffle-ruff to cover my jaws,
    And brown fur mittens on my big brown paws.
    With a big brown furry-down up to my head,
    I'd sleep all the winter in a big fur bed.




                               FORGIVEN


    I found a little beetle, so that Beetle was his name,
    And I called him Alexander and he answered just the same.
    I put him in a match-box, and I kept him all the day....
    And Nanny let my beetle out--
      Yes, Nanny let my beetle out--
               She went and let my beetle out--
                         And Beetle ran away.

    She said she didn't mean it, and I never said she did,
    She said she wanted matches and she just took off the lid,
    She said that she was sorry, but it's difficult to catch
    An excited sort of beetle you've mistaken for a match.

    She said that she was sorry, and I really mustn't mind,
    As there's lots and lots of beetles which she's certain we could find,
    If we looked about the garden for the holes where beetles hid--
    And we'd get another match-box and write BEETLE on the lid.

    We went to all the places which a beetle might be near,
    And we made the sort of noises which a beetle likes to hear,
    And I saw a kind of something, and I gave a sort of shout:
    "A beetle-house and Alexander Beetle coming out!"

    It was Alexander Beetle I'm as certain as can be
    And he had a sort of look as if he thought it must be ME,
    And he had a sort of look as if he thought he ought to say:
    "I'm very very sorry that I tried to run away."

    And Nanny's very sorry too for you-know-what-she-did,
    And she's writing ALEXANDER very blackly on the lid.
    So Nan and Me are friends, because it's difficult to catch
    An excited Alexander you've mistaken for a match.




                          THE EMPEROR'S RHYME


    The King of Peru
    (Who was Emperor too)
      Had a sort of a rhyme
        Which was useful to know,
    If he felt very shy
    When a stranger came by,
      Or they asked him the time
        When his watch didn't go;
    Or supposing he fell
    (By mistake) down a well,
      Or he tumbled when skating
        And sat on his hat,
    Or perhaps wasn't told,
    Till his porridge was cold,
      That his breakfast was waiting--
        Or something like that;
    Oh, whenever the Emperor
    Got in to a temper, or
      Felt himself sulky or sad,
    He would murmur and murmur,
    Until he felt firmer,
      This curious rhyme which he had:

    _Eight eights are sixty-four,
      Multiply by seven.
    When it's done,
    Carry one
      And take away eleven,
    Nine nines are eighty-one
      Multiply by three.
    If it's more,
    Carry four,
      And then it's time for tea._

    So whenever the Queen
    Took his armour to clean,
      And she didn't remember
        To use any starch;
    Or his birthday (in May)
    Was a horrible day,
      Being wet as November
        And windy as March;
    Or, if sitting in state
    With the Wise and the Great,
      He just happened to hiccup
        While signing his name,
    Or the Queen gave a cough,
    When his crown tumbled off
      As he bent down to pick up
        A pen for the same;
    Oh, whenever the Emperor
    Got into a temper, or
      Felt himself awkward and shy,
    He would whisper and whisper,
    Until he felt crisper,
      This odd little rhyme to the sky:

    _Eight eights are eighty-one;
      Multiply by seven.
    If it's more,
    Carry four,
      And take away eleven.
    Nine nines are sixty-four;
      Multiply by three.
    When it's done,
    Carry one,
      And then it's time for tea._




                           KNIGHT-IN-ARMOUR


    Whenever I'm a shining Knight,
    I buckle on my armour tight;
    And then I look about for things,
    Like Rushings-Out, and Rescuings,
    And Savings from the Dragon's Lair,
    And fighting all the Dragons there.
    And sometimes when our fights begin,
    I think I'll let the Dragons win....
    And then I think perhaps I won't,
    Because they're Dragons, and I don't.




                           COME OUT WITH ME


    _There's sun on the river and sun on the hill_....
    You can hear the sea if you stand quite still!
    There's eight new puppies at Roundabout Farm--
    And I saw an old sailor with only one arm!

              But every one says, "Run along!"
                (Run along, run along!)
      All of them say "Run along! I'm busy as can be."
                Every one says, "Run along,
                There's a little darling!"
      If I'm a little darling, why don't they run with me?

    _There's wind on the river and wind on the hill_....
    There's a dark dead water-wheel under the mill!
    I saw a fly which had just been drowned--
    And I know where a rabbit goes into the ground!

              But every one says, "Run along!"
                (Run along, run along!)
      All of them say "Yes, dear," and never notice me.
                Every one says, "Run along,
                There's a little darling!"
      If I'm a little darling, why won't they come and see?




                           DOWN BY THE POND


          _I'm fishing._
    Don't talk, anybody, don't come near!
    Can't you see that the fish might hear?
    He thinks I'm playing with a piece of string;
    He thinks I'm another sort of funny sort of thing,
          _But he doesn't know I'm fishing--
          He doesn't know I'm fishing._
            That's what I'm doing--
                Fishing.

          _No, I'm not, I'm newting._
    Don't cough, anybody, don't come by!
    Any small noise makes a newt feel shy.
    He thinks I'm a bush, or a new sort of tree;
    He thinks it's somebody, but doesn't think it's Me,
          _And he doesn't know I'm newting--
          No, he doesn't know I'm newting._
            That's what I'm doing--
                Newting.




                         THE LITTLE BLACK HEN


          Berryman and Baxter,
            Prettiboy and Penn
          And old Farmer Middleton
            Are five big men....
          And all of them were after
            The Little Black Hen.

          She ran quickly,
            They ran fast;
          Baxter was first, and
            Berryman was last.
          I sat and watched
            By the old plum-tree....
          She squawked through the hedge
            And she came to me.

          The Little Black Hen
            Said "Oh, it's you!"
          I said "Thank you,
            How do you do?
          And please will you tell me,
            Little Black Hen,
          What did they want,
            Those five big men?"

          The Little Black Hen
            She said to me:
          "They want me to lay them
            An egg for tea.
          If they were Emperors,
            If they were Kings,
          I'm much too busy
            To lay them things."

          "I'm not a King
            And I haven't a crown;
          I climb up trees,
            And I tumble down.
          I can shut one eye,
            I can count to ten,
          So lay me an egg, please,
            Little Black Hen."

          The Little Black Hen said,
            "What will you pay,
          If I lay you an egg
            For Easter Day?"

          "I'll give you a Please
            And a How-do-you-do,
          I'll show you the Bear
            Who lives in the Zoo,
          I'll show you the nettle-place
            On my leg,
          If you'll lay me a great big
            Eastery egg."

          The Little Black Hen
            Said "I don't care
          For a How-do-you-do
            Or a Big-brown-bear,
          But I'll lay you a beautiful
            Eastery egg,
          If you'll show me the nettle-place
            On your leg."

          I showed her the place
            Where I had my sting.
          She touched it gently
            With one black wing.
          "Nettles don't hurt
            If you count to ten.
          And now for the egg,"
            Said the Little Black Hen.

          When I wake up
            On Easter Day,
          I shall see my egg
            She's promised to lay.
          If I were Emperors,
            If I were Kings,
          It couldn't be fuller
            Of wonderful things.

          Berryman and Baxter,
            Prettiboy and Penn,
          And old Farmer Middleton
            Are five big men.
          All of them are wanting
            An egg for their tea,
    But the Little Black Hen is much too busy,
    The Little Black Hen is _much_ too busy,
    The Little Black Hen is MUCH too busy....
            _She's laying my egg for me!_




                              THE FRIEND


    There are lots and lots of people who are always asking things,
    Like Dates and Pounds-and-ounces and the names of funny Kings,
    And the answer's either Sixpence or A Hundred Inches Long,
    And I know they'll think me silly if I get the answer wrong.

    So Pooh and I go whispering, and Pooh looks very bright,
    And says, "Well, _I_ say sixpence, but I don't suppose I'm right,"
    And then it doesn't matter what the answer ought to be,
    'Cos if he's right, I'm Right, and if he's wrong, it isn't Me.




                         THE GOOD LITTLE GIRL


    It's funny how often they say to me, "Jane?
      "Have you been a _good_ girl?"
      "Have you been a _good_ girl?"
    And when they have said it, they say it again,
      "Have you been a _good_ girl?"
      "Have you been a _good_ girl?"

    I go to a party, I go out to tea,
    I go to an aunt for a week at the sea,
    I come back from school or from playing a game;
    Wherever I come from, it's always the same:
      "Well?
      Have you been a _good_ girl, Jane?"

    It's always the end of the loveliest day:
      "Have you been a _good_ girl?"
      "Have you been a _good_ girl?"
    I went to the Zoo, and they waited to say:
      "Have you been a _good_ girl?"
      "Have you been a _good_ girl?"

    Well, what did they think that I went there to do?
    And why should I want to be bad at the Zoo?
    _And should I be likely to say if I had?_
    So that's why it's funny of Mummy and Dad,
    This asking and asking, in case I was bad,
      "Well?
      Have you been a _good_ girl, Jane?"




                               A THOUGHT


    If I were John and John were Me,
    Then he'd be six and I'd be three.
    If John were Me and I were John,
    I shouldn't have these trousers on.




                     KING HILARY AND THE BEGGERMAN


    _Of Hilary the Great and Good
        They tell a tale at Christmas time
    I've often thought the story would
    Be prettier but just as good
    If almost anybody should
        Translate it into rime.
    So I have done the best I can
    For lack of some more learned man._

        Good King Hilary
        Said to his Chancellor
        (Proud Lord Willoughby,
        Lord High Chancellor):
        "Run to the wicket-gate
        Quickly, quickly,
        Run to the wicket gate
            And see who is knocking.
        It may be a rich man,
        Sea-borne from Araby,
        Bringing me peacocks,
        Emeralds and ivory;
        It may be a poor man,
    Travel-worn and weary,
    Bringing me oranges
        To put in my stocking."

    Proud Lord Willoughby,
    Lord High Chancellor,
        Laughed both loud and free:[1]
    "I've served Your Majesty, man to man,
    Since first Your Majesty's reign began,
    And I've often walked, but I never, never ran,
        Never, never, never," quoth he.

[Footnote 1: Haw! Haw! Haw!]

        Good King Hilary
        Said to his Chancellor
        (Proud Lord Willoughby,
        Lord High Chancellor):
        "Walk to the wicket-gate
    Quickly, quickly,
    Walk to the wicket-gate
        And see who is knocking.

    It may be a captain,
    Hawk-nosed, bearded,
    Bringing me gold-dust,
    Spices, and sandalwood:
    It may be a scullion,
    Care-free, whistling,
    Bringing me sugar-plums
        To put in my stocking."

    Proud Lord Willoughby,
    Lord High Chancellor,
        Laughed both loud and free:
    "I've served in the Palace since I was four,
    And I'll serve in the Palace a-many years more,
    And I've opened a window, but never a door,
        Never, never, never," quoth he.

        Good King Hilary
        Said to his Chancellor
        (Proud Lord Willoughby,
        Lord High Chancellor):
        "Open the window
    Quickly, quickly,
    Open the window
        And see who is knocking.

    It may be a waiting-maid,
    Apple-cheeked, dimpled,
    Sent by her mistress
    To bring me greeting;
    It may be children,
    Anxious, whispering,
    Bringing me cobnuts,
        To put in my stocking."

    Proud Lord Willoughby,
    Lord High Chancellor,
        Laughed both loud and free:
    "I'll serve Your Majesty till I die--
    As Lord Chancellor, not as spy
    To peep from lattices; no, not I,
        Never, never, never," quoth he.

    Good King Hilary
    Looked at his Chancellor
    (Proud Lord Willoughby,
    Lord High Chancellor):
    He said no word
    To his stiff-set Chancellor,
    But ran to the wicket-gate
        To see who was knocking.
    He found no rich man
    Trading from Araby;
    He found no captain,
    Blue-eyed, weather-tanned;
    He found no waiting-maid
    Sent by her mistress;
    But only a beggarman
        With one red stocking.

    Good King Hilary
    Looked at the beggarman,
        And laughed him three times three;
    And he turned that beggarman round about:
    "Your thews are strong, and your arm is stout;
    Come, throw me a Lord High Chancellor out,
        And take his place," quoth he.

    Of Hilary the Good and Great
    Old wives at Christmas time relate
    This tale, which points, at any rate,
        Two morals on the way.
    The first: "_Whatever Fortune brings,
    Don't be afraid of doing things._"
    (Especially, of course, for Kings.)
        It also seems to say
    (But not so wisely): "_He who begs
    With one red stocking on his legs
    Will be, as sure as eggs are eggs,
        A Chancellor some day._"




                              SWING SONG


    Here I go up in my swing
      Ever so high.
    I am the King of the fields, and the King
      Of the town.
    I am the King of the earth, and the King
      Of the sky.
    Here I go up in my swing....
      Now I go down.




                               EXPLAINED


    Elizabeth Ann
    Said to her Nan:
    "Please will you tell me how God began?
    _Somebody_ must have made Him. So
    Who could it be, 'cos I want to know?"
    And Nurse said, "_Well!_"
    And Ann said, "Well?
    I know you know, and I wish you'd tell."
    And Nurse took pins from her mouth, and said,
    "Now then, darling, it's time for bed."

    Elizabeth Ann
    Had a wonderful plan:
    She would run round the world till she found a man
    Who knew _exactly_ how God began.
    She got up early, she dressed, and ran
    Trying to find an Important Man.
    She ran to London and knocked at the door
    Of the Lord High Doodelum's coach-and-four.
    "Please, sir (if there's anyone in),
    However-and-ever did God begin?"

    The Lord High Doodelum lay in bed,
    But out of the window, large and red,
    Came the Lord High Coachman's face instead.
    And the Lord High Coachman laughed and said:
    "Well, what put _that_ in your quaint little head?"

    Elizabeth Ann went home again
    And took from the ottoman Jennifer Jane.
    "Jenniferjane," said Elizabeth Ann,
    "Tell me _at once_ how God began."
    And Jane, who didn't much care for speaking,
    Replied in her usual way by squeaking.

    What did it mean? Well, to be quite candid,
    _I_ don't know, but Elizabeth Ann did.
    Elizabeth Ann said softly, "Oh!
    Thank you, Jennifer. Now I know."




                              TWICE TIMES


    There were Two little Bears who lived in a Wood,
    And one of them was Bad and the other was Good.
    Good Bear learnt his Twice Times One--
    But Bad Bear left all his buttons undone.

    They lived in a Tree when the weather was hot,
    And one of them was Good, and the other was Not.
    Good Bear learnt his Twice Times Two--
    But Bad Bear's thingummies were worn right through.

    They lived in a Cave when the weather was cold,
    And they Did, and they Didn't Do, what they were told.
    Good Bear learnt his Twice Times Three--
    But Bad Bear _never_ had his hand-ker-chee.

    They lived in the Wood with a Kind Old Aunt,
    And one said "_Yes'm_," and the other said "_Shan't!_"
    Good Bear learnt his Twice Times Four--
    But Bad Bear's knicketies were terrible tore.

    And then quite suddenly (just like Us)
    One got Better and the other got Wuss.
    Good Bear muddled his Twice Times Three--
    But Bad Bear coughed _in his hand-ker-chee_!

    Good Bear muddled his Twice Times Two--
    But Bad Bear's thingummies looked like new.
    Good Bear muddled his Twice Times One--
    But Bad Bear _never_ left his buttons undone.

    There may be a Moral, though some say not;
    I think there's a moral, though I don't know what.
    But if one gets better, as the other gets wuss,
    These Two Little Bears are just like Us.
    For Christopher remembers up to Twice Times Ten....
    But _I_ keep forgetting where I've put my pen.[2]

[Footnote 2: _So I have had to write this one in pencil._]




                           THE MORNING WALK


    When Anne and I go out a walk,
    We hold each other's hand and talk
    Of all the things we mean to do
    When Anne and I are forty-two.

    And when we've thought about a thing,
    Like bowling hoops or bicycling,
    Or falling down on Anne's balloon,
    We do it in the afternoon.




                              CRADLE SONG


    O Timothy Tim
      Has ten pink toes,
      And ten pink toes
    Has Timothy Tim.
    They go with him
      Wherever he goes,
      And wherever he goes
    They go with him.

    O Timothy Tim
      Has two blue eyes,
      And two blue eyes
    Has Timothy Tim.
    They cry with him
      Whenever he cries,
      And whenever he cries,
    They cry with him.

    O Timothy Tim
      Has one red head,
      And one red head
    Has Timothy Tim.
    It sleeps with him
      In Timothy's bed.
      Sleep well, red head
    Of Timothy Tim.




                         WAITING AT THE WINDOW


    These are my two drops of rain
    Waiting on the window-pane.

    I am waiting here to see
    Which the winning one will be.

    Both of them have different names.
    One is John and one is James.

    All the best and all the worst
    Comes from which of them is first.

    James has just begun to ooze.
    He's the one I want to lose.

    John is waiting to begin.
    He's the one I want to win.

    James is going slowly on.
    Something sort of sticks to John.

    John is moving off at last.
    James is going pretty fast.

    John is rushing down the pane.
    James is going slow again.

    James has met a sort of smear.
    John is getting very near.

    Is he going fast enough?
    (James has found a piece of fluff.)

    John has hurried quickly by.
    (James was talking to a fly.)

    John is there, and John has won!
    _Look! I told you! Here's the sun!_




                              PINKLE PURR


    Tattoo was the mother of Pinkle Purr,
    A little black nothing of feet and fur;
    And by-and-by, when his eyes came through,
    He saw his mother, the big Tattoo.
    And all that he learned he learned from her.
    "I'll ask my mother," says Pinkle Purr.

    Tattoo was the mother of Pinkle Purr,
    A ridiculous kitten with silky fur.
    And little black Pinkle grew and grew
    Till he got as big as the big Tattoo.
    And all that he did he did with her.
    "Two friends together," says Pinkle Purr.

    Tattoo was the mother of Pinkle Purr,
    An adventurous cat in a coat of fur.
    And whenever he thought of a thing to do,
    He didn't much bother about Tattoo,
    For he knows its nothing to do with her,
    So "See you later," says Pinkle Purr.

    Tattoo is the mother of Pinkle Purr,
    An enormous leopard with coal-black fur.
    A little brown kitten that's nearly new
    Is now playing games with its big Tattoo....
    And Pink looks lazily down at her:
    "Dear little Tat," says Pinkle Purr.




                           WIND ON THE HILL


    No one can tell me,
      Nobody knows,
    Where the wind comes from,
      Where the wind goes.

    It's flying from somewhere
      As fast as it can,
    I couldn't keep up with it,
      Not if I ran.

    But if I stopped holding
      The string of my kite,
    It would blow with the wind
      For a day and a night.

    And then when I found it,
      Wherever it blew,
    I should know that the wind
      Had been going there too.

    So then I could tell them
      Where the wind goes....
    But where the wind comes from
      _Nobody_ knows.




                               FORGOTTEN


    Lords of the Nursery
      Wait in a row,
    Five on the high wall,
      And four on the low;
    Big Kings and Little Kings,
      Brown Bears and Black,
    All of them waiting
      Till John comes back.

    Some think that John boy
      Is lost in the wood,
    Some say he couldn't be,
      Some say he could.
    Some think that John boy
      Hides on the hill;
    Some say he won't come back,
      Some say he will.

    High was the sun, when
      John went away....
    Here they've been waiting
      All through the day;
    Big Bears and Little Bears,
      White Kings and Black,
    All of them waiting
      Till John comes back.

    Lords of the Nursery
      Looked down the hill,
    Some saw the sheep-fold,
      Some saw the mill;
    Some saw the roofs
      Of the little grey town....
    And their shadows grew long
      As the sun slipt down.

    Gold between the poplars
      An old moon shows;
    Silver up the star-way
      The full moon rose;
    Silver down the star-way
      The old moon crept....
    And, one by another,
      The grey fields slept.

    Lords of the Nursery
      Their still watch keep....
    They hear from the sheep-fold
      The rustle of sheep.
    A young bird twitters
      And hides its head;
    A little wind suddenly
      Breathes, and is dead.

    Slowly and slowly
      Dawns the new day....
    What's become of John boy?
      No one can say.
    Some think that John boy
      Is lost on the hill;
    Some say he won't come back,
      Some say he will.

    _What's become of John boy?
      Nothing at all,
    He played with his skipping rope,
      He played with his ball.
    He ran after butterflies,
      Blue ones and red;
    He did a hundred happy things--
      And then went to bed._




                              IN THE DARK


    I've had my supper,
      And _had_ my supper,
        And _HAD_ my supper and all;
    I've heard the story
      Of Cinderella,
        And how she went to the ball;
    I've cleaned my teeth,
      And I've said my prayers,
        And I've cleaned and said them right;
    And they've all of them been
      And kissed me lots,
        They've all of them said "Good-night."

    So--here I am in the dark alone,
      There's nobody here to see;
            I think to myself,
            I play to myself,
        And nobody knows what I say to myself;
    Here I am in the dark alone,
        What is it going to be?
    I can think whatever I like to think,
    I can play whatever I like to play,
    I can laugh whatever I like to laugh,
        There's nobody here but me.

    I'm talking to a rabbit ...
        I'm talking to the sun ...
    I think I am a hundred--
        I'm one.
    I'm lying in a forest ...
        I'm lying in a cave ...
    I'm talking to a Dragon ...
        I'm BRAVE.
    I'm lying on my left side ...
        I'm lying on my right ...
    I'll play a lot to-morrow ...
         .......
    I'll think a lot to-morrow ...
         .......
    I'll laugh ...
                a lot ...
                        to-morrow ...
                (_Heigh-ho!_)
                          Good-night.




                                THE END


              When I was One,
              I had just begun.

              When I was Two,
              I was nearly new.

              When I was Three,
              I was hardly Me.

              When I was Four,
              I was not much more.

              When I was Five,
              I was just alive.

    But now I am Six, I'm as clever as clever.
    So I think I'll be six now for ever and ever.